

=== PAGE 1 ===
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The crypto ecosystem: 
key elements and risks 
Report submitted to the G20 Finance Ministers and 
Central Bank Governors 
 
 
 
July 2023 
   
  


=== PAGE 2 ===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This publication is available on the BIS website (www.bis.org). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© Bank for International Settlements 2023. All rights  reserved. Brief excerpts may be reproduced or 
translated provided the source is stated. 
 
 
 
 
ISBN  978-92-9259-670-5 (online) 

=== PAGE 3 ===
 
The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks i
 
The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 
BIS report to be submitted ahead of the July 2023 G20 FMCBG meeting 
Contents 
1.  Introduction ............................................................................................................................................................................ 1 
2.  The key elements of the crypto ecosystem ............................................................................................................... 1 
2.1  Unbacked crypto ............................................................................................................................................ 2 
2.2  Stablecoins ....................................................................................................................................................... 2 
2.3  Smart contracts and decentralised finance ......................................................................................... 3 
3.  Structural flaws and risks ................................................................................................................................................... 5 
3.1  Structural flaws ............................................................................................................................................... 5 
3.1.1  Fragmentation and congestion ................................................................................................................ 5 
3.1.2  Stablecoins and the search for a nominal anchor ............................................................................ 7 
3.1.3  False decentralisation claims and their consequences ................................................................... 9 
3.2  Risks................................................................................................................................................................... 11 
3.2.1  Within the crypto ecosystem .................................................................................................................. 11 
3.2.2  Risks in DeFi ................................................................................................................................................... 13 
3.2.3  Interconnectedness with the traditional financial system ........................................................... 14 
3.2.4  Risks to emerging market and developing economies ................................................................ 15 
3.3  Addressing the risks in crypto ................................................................................................................ 16 
3.4  Addressing data gaps: Project Atlas ..................................................................................................... 17 
4.   Conclusions .......................................................................................................................................................................... 19 
References .......................................................................................................................................................................................... 20 
Glossary ............................................................................................................................................................................................... 23 

=== PAGE 4 ===
 
The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 1
 
1. Introduction 
The market capitalisation of the crypto ecosystem – notwithstanding a significant decline in 2022 – lies in 
the trillions of dollars, and there are thousands of crypto coins in circulation. The spread of crypto has 
been global in nature and driven by a wide range of investors. 
In theory, the crypto universe builds on the prem ise of decentralisation. Rather than relying on 
central bank money and trusted inte rmediaries, crypto envisages that the recordkeeping of transfers is 
provided by a multitude of anonymous validators. Decentralised fina nce, or “DeFi”, seeks to replicate 
conventional financial services in a decentralised way within the crypto universe, often underpinned by the 
medium of exchange role of stablecoins. DeFi incorporates innovations such as programmability and 
composability on blockchains. 1  Such systems are “always on”, allo wing for worldwide transactions 24 
hours per day, seven days per week. 
Recent events revealed a wide divergence between the crypto vision and reality. Although crypto 
operates under the banner of decen tralisation, in practice new centralised intermediaries have played a 
key role in channelling funds into the crypto universe and intermediating within it. The implosion of the 
FTX crypto exchange is only the most notable manifest ation of the sector’s vulnerabilities. Rather than 
providing a more resilient financial architecture, cryp to displayed the same well known vulnerabilities of 
traditional finance, but in amplified ways.  
This report reviews the key elements of the crypto ecosystem and assesses its structural flaws. It 
then goes over the risks that it po ses and discusses options for addressing them. It also identifies data 
gaps and discusses ways to alleviate them.  
The report has three key takeaway s. First, the crypto ecosystem is subject to a high degree of 
fragmentation and is characterised by congestion and high fees. This would have been the case even if it 
had stayed true to its original dec entralised ethos. These structural flaws deriv e from the underlying 
economics of incentives of validators rather than from technology. And while crypto has offered some 
elements of genuine innovation, these can be re plicated or embedded in th e safer and more trusted 
traditional finance system (BIS (2023)). Second, despite  an original ethos of decentralisation, crypto and 
DeFi often feature substantial de facto centralisatio n, which introduces various pain points. A prime 
example concerns stablecoins, which piggyback on the credibility of the central bank’s unit of account and 
may pose risks to monetary sovereignty. Third, while  DeFi mostly replicates services offered by the 
traditional financial system, it does not finance any activity in the real economy but amplifies known risks. 
As growth is driven mainly by the speculative influx of new users hoping for high returns, crypto and DeFi 
pose substantial risks to (especially retail) investors. In sum, crypto’s inherent structural flaws make it 
unsuitable to play a constructive role in the monetary system (BIS (2022)).  
2. The key elements of the crypto ecosystem 
This section describes the main components of the crypto ecosystem. It begins by tracing the development 
of Bitcoin and blockchain technology . It then discusses the growing ro le of centralised intermediaries in 
 
1  A blockchain is a digital ledger (like a spreadsheet) that records transactions in a way that is secure, transparent and immu table. 
Information is stored across a network of computers. In contrast to the centralised nature of traditional databases, every 
participant has a copy of the same ledger. When a new transactio n is made, it is broadcasted to the network and verified by 
multiple computers using complex algorithms. Once verified, the transaction is added to the ledger as a “block” and cannot be 
altered without consensus from the network. 

=== PAGE 5 ===
 
2 The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 
 
the ecosystem. In particular, it discusses stablecoin s, which are most often is sued by centralised entities 
and grew from a bespoke solution to the inherent volatility of crypto assets to becoming a pillar of the 
crypto ecosystem. The section concludes with a discussion of smart contracts and the decentralised finance 
applications that build on them. The technical te rms used throughout this report are defined in the 
Glossary. 
2.1 Unbacked crypto 
The birth of crypto dates to the introduction of Bi tcoin in 2009: a decentralised, peer-to-peer means of 
transferring value on a shared public ledger (ie a pu blic blockchain using distributed ledger technology 
(DLT)). In its original formulation, crypto was characterised by not being backed by any asset, as well as by 
a stated claim to reduce the influence of intermediaries through decentralisation (Nakamoto (2008)). 
Ownership of crypto assets and transactions wi th them are verified by  decentralised validators 
and recorded on the public ledger. If a seller wants to transfer cryptoassets to a buyer, the buyer (identified 
through their cryptographic digital signature) broadc asts the transact ion details, eg tran sacting parties, 
amount or fees. Validators (in some networks called “miners”) then compete to verify the transaction, and 
whoever is selected to verify appends the list of transactions to the blockchain and is compensated in fees 
paid in cryptoassets. The updated blockchain is then shared among all miners and users. In this way, the 
history of all transactions is publicly observable and tied to specific wallets, while the true identities of the 
parties behind transactions (ie the ow ners of the wallets) remain undisclo sed. In this sense, transactions 
on blockchains are pseudo-anonymous. By broadcasting all information publicly, the system verifies that 
every transaction is consistent with the history of tr ansfers on the blockchain, eg that the cryptocurrency 
actually belongs to the seller and has not been spent more than once.  
As cryptoassets started attracting broader attention from potential investors, centralised entities 
played a greater role in channelling funds into crypto  coins. In particular, centralised exchanges, which 
facilitated the conversion between Bitcoin, other cryptoassets and fiat money, contributed to rising crypto 
prices by attracting new participants, in a self-r einforcing loop. Centralised intermediaries (notably 
platforms such as Mt Gox in the early days, and more recently Binance, Coinbase, Kraken and FTX until its 
sudden collapse in late 2022) have reasserted their key role in the crypto ecosystem time and time again. 
This system has come to be known within the crypto  space as centralised finance (CeFi), and its ups and 
downs have contributed to the volatility of cryptoasset prices (Graph 1.A).  
2.2 Stablecoins 
Stablecoins have established themse lves as the main medium of exch ange within the crypto ecosystem 
and as a gateway into it. They are so-called because they aim to maintain a stable value relative to a 
specified asset or pool of assets. Stablecoins ar e usually pegged to a numeraire, almost always the US 
dollar, but can also target the price of other currencies or assets (eg gold or even  other cryptoassets). In 
this way, they seek to overcome high volatility and low liquidity to play the role of a medium of exchange 
in the crypto universe. Stablecoins also play a key role in the DeFi ecosystem (see next section).2   
Stablecoins come in two main types, depending on how they attempt to maintain their peg (FSB 
(2022)). Most stablecoin arrangements are managed by a centralised intermediary and are “asset-backed”. 
The underlying assets can include US government bonds, short-term corporate debt or bank deposits. The 
centralised intermediary invests th e underlying collateral and coordi nates the coins’ redemption and 
 
2  The use of stablecoins avoids frequent and costly conversion between crypto and bank deposits in sovereign currency and 
allows users to leave their wealth within the crypto ecosystem, without exposing it to substantial volatility risk. 

=== PAGE 6 ===
 
The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 3
 
creation. The most prominent stablecoins are Tether, USD Coin (USDC) and Binance USD. “Algorithmic 
stablecoins”, in contrast, aim to automatically rebalance supply via arbitrage with a paired volatile token 
to maintain the peg. They are typically not backed by real world assets, with the most prominent example 
being the failed TerraUSD stablecoin.3 
2.3 Smart contracts and decentralised finance 
Since the advent of Bitcoin, many other blockchains and associated crypto coins have entered the scene, 
most notably Ethereum and its associated native coin Ether in 2015 (Graph 1.B). Ethereum and many of 
the newer blockchains allow for “programmability”, ie they give developers the option of building 
applications on top of their blockchain through the use of so-called smart contracts.  
Smart contracts are self-executing code that triggers an action if certain pre-specified conditions 
are met. They can automate some market functions and to some extent obviat e intermediaries that are 
traditionally required to make decisions. Th ey are therefore better thought of as unattended contracts 
(Neilson (2021)). The underlying code is publicly available (ie open source) and can be scrutinised. As smart 
contracts cannot directly access info rmation that resides “off-chain”, ie outside the specific blockchain, 
they require so-called oracles as mediators to provide such data. 
 
3  For example, an algorithmic stablecoin X could aim to keep a one-for-one peg to th e US dollar by being convertible into one 
dollar’s worth of another cryptocurrency Y and vice versa. Should X fall to 99 cents, a user could purchase X on an exchange 
for 99 cents and then exchange their X for $1 worth of new units of Y. There are of course exceptions to the broad categorisation 
used in this report. The most prominent is DAI, which is non-algorithmic and is backed by a mix of unbacked crypto (eg Ether) 
and stablecoins (eg USDC). 
Despite repeated setbacks and outsize volatility, crypto grew until late 2021 Graph 1
A. Long-term price of crypto assets  B. Market size of crypto and DeFi 1 
USD, log scale  USD trn 
 
 
 
a  Bankruptcy of Mt Gox.    b  Bursting of ICO bubble.    c  TerraUSD and Luna collapse.    d  Bankruptcy of FTX. 
1  End-of-week values. Categories comprise the largest seven stablecoins, 59 DeFi coins and 64 other cryptocurrencies. DeFi coins correspond 
to cryptocurrencies issued by DeFi platform s and with a market capitalisation-to-total value locked ratio smaller than 50, as r eported by
DeFiLlama. Total value locked refers to the size of capital pools underpinning DeFi protocols. For more details, see Table A2 from Auer (2022).
Sources: BIS (2022); Bloomberg; CoinGecko; BIS. 
48.6
16.2
5.4
1.8
0.6
0.2
23222120191817161514
ab c d
Bitcoin Ether
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
202320222021
Bitcoin
DeFi coins
Market cap: Ether
Others
Stablecoins

=== PAGE 7 ===
 
4 The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 
 
An important feature of smart contracts is thei r “composability”, ie the capacity to combine 
different components in the system. Users can perform complex transactions on the same blockchain by 
combining multiple instructions within one single smart contract – like “money lego”.  
Programmability also opened the door to DeFi, a new ecosystem for the provision of crypto 
services. DeFi aims to offer traditional financial services and products on the blockchain, with the declared 
objective of greater transparency and cutting out the middlemen to lower costs. DeFi protocols combine 
multiple smart contracts to provide lending, borrowing and trading services within the crypto ecosystem. 
Decentralised applications (dApps) are graphical interfaces that allow users to interact with protocols from 
their computers or smartphones. While they are not strictly necessary to interact with the DeFi ecosystem, 
as users could set up their own interface, they ar e the entry point to DeFi for all but the savviest 
participants.  
Stablecoins play an important role in the DeFi ecosystem by serving as a medium of exchange in 
a wide range of activities (Graph 2.A).4  For one, they provide liquidity to the DeFi ecosystem by allowing 
users to move in and out of decentr alised applications. Relatedly, stablecoins serve as trading pairs for 
other cryptoassets in decentralised exchanges, thereby allowing user s to trade crypto without having to 
convert back to fiat currency, hence reducing transaction costs. Moreover, stablecoins are widely used on 
DeFi lending and borrowing platforms, where users borrow and lend stablecoins against collateral in the 
form of other cryptoassets. Because of this key role, turnover in stablecoins generally dwarfs that of other 
cryptoassets (Graph 2.B).   
 
4  See Aramonte et al  (2021) and Schär (2021). 
Stablecoins and DeFi grew in tandem Graph 2
A. Stablecoins gained ground as capital in DeFi apps 
climbed1 
 B. Turnover of stablecoins dwarfs that of other 
cryptoassets4 
USD bn  Ratio 
 
 
 
1  Stacked areas plot stablecoins’ value in circulation. The selected stablecoins are those ranked as the top four by market capitalisation as of
21 June 2023.    2  Total value locked refers to the size of capital p ools underpinning DeFi protocol s. The sample includes 2,939
protocols.    3  Includes 61 other stablecoins.    4  Based on the top 20 cryptoassets by market capitalisation as of 21 June 2023 (four
stablecoins, seven DeFi coins and nine other cryptoassets). Turnover is the monthly average of the daily volume-to-market capitalisation ratio 
from 21 May to 21 June 2023.    5  Cryptoassets issued by DeFi platforms. 
Source: Aramonte et al (2021). 
200
150
100
50
0
202320222021202020192018
Total value locked in DeFi2Lhs: 
TetherRhs: USD Coin Binance USD Dai
Other stablecoins3
0.20
0.15
0.10
0.05
0.00
Turnover
Tether
Stablecoins (other than Tether)
Other cryptoassets
DeFi coins5
Bitcoin

=== PAGE 8 ===
 
The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 5
 
The main types of financial activity in DeFi, such as lending, trading and insurance, are the same 
as those already available in traditional finance. Lending platforms allow users to lend out their stablecoins 
with interest to borrowers that post other cryptocu rrencies as collateral. Decentralised exchanges (DEXs) 
represent marketplaces where transa ctions occur directly between cryp tocurrency or stablecoin traders, 
and prices are determined via automated mathematical formulas. On DeFi insurance platforms, users can 
insure themselves against some risks within the crypto system, eg the mish andling of private keys, 
exchange hacks or smart contract failures, receiving cryptoassets as compensation.  
Yet, DeFi activities almost excl usively involve exchanging one st ablecoin or crypto coin for 
another, and do not finance activity in the real economy. In this sense, the system is mostly self-referential 
and used for speculation in coins.5  Growth is driven mainly by the continuous influx of new users hoping 
for high returns. Indeed, recent evi dence suggests that rising crypto pr ices are followed by significantly 
higher adoption of crypto trading apps, as new users are lured by the prospect of further gains.6 
3. Structural flaws and risks 
This section highlights that, despite the potential for genuine technological innovation, crypto has inherent 
structural flaws that pose serious risks not only to its own stability and safety, but also to the traditional 
financial system. The section first reviews the main st ructural flaws of the crypto ecosystem, including 
congestion, fragmentation and the need to borrow credibility from sovereign money. It also discusses the 
problems arising from the need for ce ntralisation. The section then summarises the main risks, splitting 
them into risks within the crypto ecosystem (including risks to market integrity, consumer protection and 
privacy), risks specific to DeFi and risks arising from  the interconnectedness with the traditional financial 
system. The section then discusses options for addressing the risks posed by crypto, before closing with a 
discussion of the data gaps that currently hinder monitoring. 
3.1 Structural flaws 
3.1.1 Fragmentation and congestion 
Crypto – even in its original, fully decentralised, form – suffers from inherent limitations of permissionless 
blockchains that lead to fragmentation of the system, accompanied by congestion and high fees.7  Tracing 
the reasons for fragmentation highlights why the limitat ions are not technological but rather stem from 
incentive structures. 
On the blockchain, self-interested validators  are responsible for recording ownership and 
transactions. However, in the pseudo-anonymous cryp to system, they have no reputation at stake and 
anonymity impedes accountability. Instead, they must be incentivised through sufficiently high monetary 
rewards to report truthfully and su stain the system of decentralised co nsensus. Honest validation must 
 
5  In April 2023, the Crypto Council for Inno vation issued an open call for case studies “to tell clear stories of how this innovation 
has created a positive impact”. The Crypto Council for Innovation provided three examples, with the most important being the 
ability to send financial aid through the use of stablecoins slightly faster than using standard financial institutions.  
6  See Auer, Cornelli, Doerr, Fr ost and Gambacorta (2022) and Cornelli et al (2023) . Note that in some cases, cryptocurrency can  
be used to buy products  in non-crypto businesses. For example, El Salv ador made Bitcoin legal tender in 2021, yet usage 
remains low (Alvarez et al (2022)). 
7  See BIS (2018) and Boissay et al (2022). 

=== PAGE 9 ===
 
6 The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 
 
yield higher returns than the potential gains from cheating. Should rewards become too low, individual 
validators would have an incentive to cheat and steal funds, jeopardising overall security (Budish, 2022). 
A common way to reward validators so as to mainta in incentives is to limit the capacity of the 
blockchain, thereby maintaining high fees sustained by congestion (Huberman et al (2021)). As validators 
can choose which transactions are validated and proc essed, periods of conges tion see users offering 
higher fees to have their transact ions processed (Graph 3.A). Congesti on and high fees also mean that 
payments systems based on decentralised blockchains will remain comparatively slow and expensive. 
The blockchain capacity problem is a manifestation of the so-called scalability trilemma (Buterin 
(2021)). By their nature, permissionless blockchains can achieve only two of the three properties: security, 
decentralisation and scalability. Security – in the sense of truthful reporting and preventing manipulation 
of the transaction history – is enhanced through incentives and decentralisation. But sustaining incentives 
entails congestion, which limits scalability. It is this incompatibility between three key attributes that 
impairs blockchains’ ability to serve as an efficient payment system and crypto’s ability to serve as money.  
Limited scalability has resulted in the fragmentation of the crypto universe, as newer blockchains 
with more capacity that possibly cut corners on security entered the fray. These newer blockchains often 
aim for higher transaction limits, ev en if these come at the cost of  greater centralisation and weaker 
security. Simply put, on blockchains that rely on a larger network of validators and where each validator 
has only limited influence over the consensus, it is harder for one validator to manipulate the ledger. But 
this also means that every transact ion takes longer to be validated, im plying higher costs for users, and 
hence higher required rewards. Such blockchain s therefore become con gested more rapidly. On 
blockchains with fewer validators, on the other hand, there is more potential for a smaller group of 
validators to manipulate the network.  
Blockchain congestion leads to fragmentation Graph 3
A. Network congestion leads to high gas fees on the 
Ethereum network1 
 B. Fragmentation of layer 1 blockchains 2 
  % of total assets locked 
 
 
 
1  Outliers larger than 450 Gwei (10–9 ETH) are excluded from the graph.    2  Based on total value locked which corresponds to the aggregate
of all funds locked in a DeFi smart contract. 
Source: Boissay et al (2022). 
300
200
100
0
1.981.20.730.44
Millions of transactions per day, logarithmic scale
Average gas fees (10–9 ETH)
100
75
50
25
0
202320222021
Binance
Solana
Layer 1 networks: Ethereum
Avalanche
Tron
Other layer 1 and 2 networks
Terra
Fantom

=== PAGE 10 ===
 
The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 7
 
The Terra blockchain was just the most glarin g example of a large number of new entrants 
(Graph 3.B). As recently as the beginning of 2021, Ethereum accounted for almost all of the total value 
locked in DeFi protocols. By Ma y 2022, this share had dropped to  50%. The widening wedge (red area) 
accounted for by the failed Terra blockchain is particularly striking, as the collapse of the Terra blockchain 
highlights the tendency to fragmentation through cryp to’s vulnerability to new entrants who prioritise 
market share and capacity at the expense of decentralisation and security. 
A system of competing blockchains that are not interoperable introduces new risks of hacks and 
theft. In this context, interoperability refers to the ability of protocols and validators to access and share 
information, as well as validate tran sactions, across different blockchains. 8  Interoperability of the 
underlying settlement layers is not achievable in prac t i c e ,  a s  e a c h  b l o c k c h a i n  i s  a  s e p a r a t e  r e c o r d  o f  
settlements. Nevertheless, so-called cross-chain bridges have emerged to  permit users to transfer coins 
across blockchains. Yet, most bridges rely on only a small number of validators, which – in the absence of 
regulation and legal accountability – users need to trust not to engage in illicit behaviour. As the number 
of bridges has risen, they have stood at the centre of several high-profile hacks, highlighting vulnerabilities 
to security breaches stemming from weakness in blockchain governance. Such hacks could further lower 
trust in the broader fintech sector, standing in the way of greater adoption (Chen et al (2023), Doerr et al 
(2023)). 
The fragmentation of the crypto universe stands in stark contrast to the network effects that take 
root in traditional networks. Crypto’s reliance on decentralised validators and the attendant fragmentation 
leaves no role for money as a coordination device,  making crypto unsuitable as a monetary system. 
Traditional networks, on the contrary, are characterised by the “winner takes all” property, whereby more 
users flocking to a particular platform beget even more users. Such network effects are at the heart of the 
virtuous circle of lower costs and enhanced trust in traditional platforms. 
3.1.2 Stablecoins and the se arch for a nominal anchor 
Fiat-backed stablecoins, the dominant form of stablecoin, piggyback on the credibility of the central bank’s 
unit of account. Having a unit of account means th at everyone uses it as a common measure of the 
economic value of products and services, greatly fac ilitating financial and economic transactions. In the 
real world, providing the unit of account for the ec onomy is the primary role of the central bank. While 
there is no such thing as a central bank in the crypto universe, it needs to have a unit of account, like any 
monetary system. Stablecoins attempt to serve this unit-of-account function, but they do so by tying their 
value to fiat currencies, such as the dollar, whose value is guaranteed by a central bank. In this sense, 
stablecoins are the manifestation of crypto’s existential search for a nominal anchor. 
Yet stablecoins suffer from a number of shortcomings that threaten their claim to stability. For 
one, they are subject to an inherent  conflict of interest whereby issuers are incentivised to invest in risky 
assets. The robustness of stablecoin stabilisation mechanisms hence depends crucially on the quality and 
transparency of their reserve assets, which are often lacking. 9  In addition, they benefit neither from the 
regulatory requirements and prot ections of bank deposits and e-mon ey, nor from the credibility of the 
central bank defending the peg. Moreover, as stableco ins are transferable liabilities and transactions do 
not settle on the central bank balance sheet, their exchange rate can fluctuate away from par.10  
 
 
8  See Buterin (2016). 
9  See Arner et al (2020); Catalini and de Gortari (2021); Frost et al (2020); Gorton and Zhang (2022); Ahmed et al (2023). 
10  In other words, stablecoins ca nnot guarantee the “singleness of money” (see Garratt and Shin (2023)). 

=== PAGE 11 ===
 
8 The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 
 
Box A 
The collapse of the TerraUSD stablecoin 
The use of TerraUSD (UST) grew rapidly over 2021–22 so that, prior to its collapse in mid-2022, it was the third largest 
stablecoin, with a peak market capita lisation of almost $19 billion. An algorithmic stablecoin, UST aimed to keep a 
one-for-one peg to the US dollar by being convertible into one dollar’s worth of another cryptocurrency, Luna, on the 
Terra blockchain, and vice versa. For example, should Terra fall to 99 cents, a user could purchase UST on an exchange 
for 99 cents and then exchange their UST for $1 worth of new units of Luna on the Terra platform. A crucial aspect of 
this arrangement was that users would be willing to exchan ge UST into Luna only if Luna’s market capitalisation 
exceeded that of UST. As Luna had no intrinsic value, its valuation stemmed primarily from  the influx of speculative 
users into the Terra ecosystem. To attract new users, the associated lending protocol Anchor offered a deposit rate of 
around 20% on UST. As long as users had confidence in the stable value of UST and the sustained market capitalisation 
of Luna, the system could be sustained.  
However, once investors lost confidence in the system’s sustainability, the arrangement unravelled. In May 
2022, the value of UST plummeted to almost zero (Graph A1.A). As UST dropped below its peg, a classic run dynamic 
took hold as investors sought to redeem their funds. Us ers burned their UST on a large scale to mint one dollar’s 
worth of new Luna, in the hope of selling Luna while it still had some value. However, given the size and speed of the 
shock, confidence evaporated, meaning that there were not enough parties willin g to buy all the newly minted Luna 
coins – and so the price of Luna collapsed.  
The TerraUSD implosion and fragilities in stablecoins Graph A1
A. Terra and Luna coins dropped in 
value rapidly 
B. Tether briefly lost its peg and 
suffered $10bn in outflows1 
C. Investors moved to USD Coin and 
other asset-backed stablecoins 
USD USD  USD USDT bn  USD bn 
 
  
 
a  TerraUSD and Luna collapse starting on 9 May 2022. 
1  The price corresponds to the low price. 
Source: BIS (2022). 
The UST/Luna implosion spilled over to the largest st ablecoin, Tether, which dropped to a value of $0.95 
before recovering. It saw outflows of over $10 billion in the subsequent weeks (Graph A1.B). The de-pegging has been 
linked to Tether’s unwillingness to provide details about its reserve portfolio: investors worried about whether Tether 
had enough high-quality assets that could be liquidated to support the peg. This argument is supported by the inflows 
experienced by the regulated stablecoin USDC (with better documented reserves), with funds probably coming from 
Tether (Graph A1.C). 
100
75
50
25
0
1.00
0.75
0.50
0.25
0.00
Q2 2022Q1 2022
a
Terra (Luna) (lhs)
TerraUSD (rhs)
Price:
1.00
0.99
0.98
0.97
0.96
0.95
82
80
78
76
74
72
Q2 2022Q1 2022
a
Price (lhs)
Circulating supply (rhs)
80
70
60
50
40
Q2 2022
a
Tether
USD Coin
Market capitalisation:

=== PAGE 12 ===
 
The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 9
 
A case in point has been the above-mentioned implosion of TerraUSD, which in May 2022 lost 
nearly its entire value over the course of a few da ys (Box A). In the aftermath, several fiat-backed 
stablecoins saw large-scale redemptions, temporar ily losing their peg. Redemptions were more 
pronounced among stablecoins whose issuers did not disclose the composition of reserve assets in detail, 
presumably reflecting investors’ worries that such issuers might not be able to  guarantee conversion at 
par. Indeed, stablecoins have proved to be not that stable. 
3.1.3 False decentralisation claims and their consequences  
Crypto proponents argue that decentralisation guarantees the safety of the system. However, there is often 
a de facto concentration of decision-making power. While centralisation is not a structural flaw per se, it 
introduces new risks and invalidates  arguments made by proponents of crypto and DeFi that stress its 
purportedly decentralised nature. 
Concentration arises partly from congestion effects in decentralised platforms with proof-of-work 
systems. To reduce congestion, newer proof-of-stake blockchains require validators to post their coins as 
collateral, which gives them a better chance of being paid for validating the next block. However, this can 
lead to a concentration of power and coins among a small number of validators, since operational costs 
are mostly fixed (Auer, Frost and Vidal Pastor (2022)). 
“Contract incompleteness”, ie the inability to wr ite contracts that can cover all future possible 
eventualities, is another reason fo r centralisation. It is recognised th at centralisation can allow economic 
agents to overcome contract incompleteness. This ha s an analogue in the DeFi space in the concept of 
“algorithm incompleteness”, namely the inability to write code that covers all potential situations and 
outcomes. Consequently, DeFi platforms must have some degree of central governance to address these 
gaps in code and outline strategic and operational priorities. This  element of centralisation is typically 
represented by “governance tokens”, held to a large extent by platform developers and early investors (ie 
insiders) who vote on proposals (Gra ph 4.A). With the increasing centralisation of validators, the risk of 
attacks and hacks increases, not least as these centralised nodes are often unregulated.11  
 
11  See IOSCO (2022). 
Insiders control token allocation and centralised exchanges dominate volumes Graph 4
A. Coins are often allocated to insiders  B. Weekly trading volume 1 
  USD bn USD bn 
 
 
 
1  Centralised = Binance and Coinbase; Decentralised = Curve.fi, PancakeSwap (v2) and Uniswap (V2). Weekly averages of daily values. 
Sources: Auer, Frost and Vidal Pastor (2022); BIS (2022). 
Tezos
Ethereum
Cardano
Polkadot
Near
Algorand
Avalanche
Celo
Terra
Solana
Binance
50403020100
% of initial coin allocation
400
300
200
100
0
40
30
20
10
0
Q2 23Q4 22Q2 22Q4 21Q2 21
Centralised (lhs) Decentralised (rhs)

=== PAGE 13 ===
 
10 The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 
 
DeFi’s inherent need to obtain information from the real world also represents an important 
impediment to decentralisation. While DeFi, in pr inciple, relies on decentr alised and consensus-based 
trust, the reporting of data that underpins smart contracts relies on oracles. Oracles process and source 
the data, ultimately transmitting this information to  the blockchain. As oracles require trust and exhibit 
various degrees of centralisation, this gives rise to the “oracle problem” (Box B). In the extreme, some use 
a single data source or have a single person/entity in charge of transmitting information to the platform. 
This introduces a single point of failure and leaves room for untruthful reporting, as whoever oversees the 
Box B 
The oracle problem 
Decentralised finance (DeFi) needs to import data from th e real world, which creates a practical conundrum: it is 
impossible to import data into a blockchain without involving a third party (the oracle). 
The oracle problem arises because oracles introduce centralisation to a decentralised system, overriding the 
reliance on consensus as a trust mechanis m (Graph B1). Oracles with a high degr ee of centralisation rely on a single 
data source or have a single  person/entity responsible for transmitting information to the platform. This reliance on 
one source introduces a single point of failure and leaves room for manipulation when the data source is not 
trustworthy. 
Three main risks emerge. First, the anonymity of agen ts in a DeFi setting may increase incentives for 
malicious behaviour. In traditional finance (TradFi), wh en manipulations are detect ed, the identities of the 
manipulators are typically revealed, and those individuals are held account able for malpractice by supervisory 
agencies and others. The open and transparent nature of DeFi may make detection of fraud easier, but the inability 
to identify and hold responsible individuals accountable ma kes DeFi systems more susc eptible to manipulation. 
Second, the lack of regulation or oversight of oracle prov iders makes recourse less clear in DeFi. Although there are 
legal challenges surrounding information falsification in TradFi, established legal systems provide the basis for 
assigning penalties, compensating victims and, in some cases, clawing back funds. Third, the terms of smart contracts 
and the data inputs they reference on the blockchain are immutable, which makes errors or illegal actions more costly 
than in traditional financial settings. Once data are valid ated on the blockchain, they cannot be corrected, and all 
smart contracts that reference that data will continue to do so.  
Technological efforts to decentralise oracles involve adding consensus mechanisms to information provision 
processes, for instance through a group of independent blockchain oracles. These so lutions try to reintroduce 
decentralised trust at the expense of speed and efficiency, since the more networks are added to guarantee truth, the 
more delays will be introduced throughout the lifecycle of a smart contract.  
The oracle problem Graph B1
Source: adapted from Duley et al (2023). 
 
Dev 1
DLT
Dev 2
Smart contract
Information
Oracle
Centralised
Decentralised

=== PAGE 14 ===
 
The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 11
 
oracle has the ability to corrupt the system by misreporting data. Currently, there are no clear rules as to 
how oracle providers are incentivised or vetted, or who is held accountable if a smart contract acts upon 
incorrect off-chain information. 
Finally, centralisation is also present in crypto tr ading activities, where investors rely mainly on 
centralised exchanges (CEXs) rather than decentralised ones. While the latter work by matching the 
counterparties in a transaction through so-called automated market-maker protocols, CEXs maintain off-
chain records of outstanding orders posted by trader s – known as limit order books – which are familiar 
from traditional finance. CEXs attract more trading activity than DEXs because of their lower costs 
(Graph 4.B). Even though crypto CEXs mimic some functions of traditional exchanges, they are not subject 
to the same regulation and supervision.  
Reliance on CEXs can jeopardise users’ investments, as these exchanges have repeatedly shown 
to be lacking even basic risk management controls and governance standards.  The most prominent 
examples include the failure of bitcoin exchange Mt Gox in 2014, which resulted in the loss of more than 
$400 million worth of bitcoin, and the bankruptcy of  FTX in November 2022, which caused losses to its 
customers of billions of dollars, among many others.  
3.2 Risks 
When discussing the risks of crypto, it is important to note that, to date, the ecosystem is largely self-
referential. Activities almost exclusively involve exchanging one stablecoin or cryptocurrency for another, 
without financing any activity in the real economy. In consequence, crypto currently poses significant risks 
mainly to investors in the crypto space, while links to the real world remain limited. 
3.2.1 Within the crypto ecosystem  
Crypto poses significant risks to investors. Rising crypto prices tend to lure retail investors into the space, 
with an expectation of quick and large capital gains (Graph 5.A). 12  These expectations are generally not 
met, however, as a large share of users in most economies tend to lose money (Graph 5.B).  
The events of 2022 illustrate vi vidly the risks faced by invest ors, especially smaller ones. 13  The 
aftermath of the collapses of TerraUSD and FTX saw a st riking pattern: the number of daily active users 
across the major platforms increased markedly, suggesting that users attempted to weather the storm by 
shifting their portfolios away from stressed tokens  into safer alternatives, including asset-backed 
stablecoins (Graphs 6.A and 6.B). However, behind this flurry of activity, large investors appear to have 
benefited at the expense of smaller holders. Indeed, owners of large wallets reduced their bitcoin holdings, 
whereas medium-sized and especially smaller holders increased their holdings (Graph 6.C). 
The lack of control mechanisms in many crypto firms implies that investors’ money is at high risk 
if these firms face funding challenges or the threat of bankruptcy. For instance, following its failure, it 
emerged that FTX owed more than $3 billion to its un secured creditors – mainly users of the exchange 
who had transferred their funds ther e. FTX was not the only case in which this happened. Many of the 
customers of other crypto firms that failed in recent years have been unable to access their funds or have 
had to wait a very long time to do so.14  
 
12  See Auer, Cornelli, Doerr,  Frost and Gambacorta (2022). 
13  See Cornelli et al (2023). 
14  With the start of the latest crypto winter and in the afterm ath of the demise of TerraUSD, there were numerous failures beyond 
FTX, with those of Celsius, Voyager, BlockFi, Three Arrows Capital and Genesis being the most prominent. 

=== PAGE 15 ===
 
12 The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 
 
Retail investors have chased prices, and most have lost money Graph 5
A. More users trade when the Bitcoin 
price increases… 
B. …and a large share of users in ne arly all economies probably lost money2 
USD Millions of users   
 
 
1  Cross-country monthly average of daily ac tive users (DAUs). Calculated  on a sample of more than 200 crypto exchange apps over  95
countries.    2  The use of this map does not constitute , and should not be construed as constituting, an expression of a position by the BIS
regarding the legal status or sovereignty of any territory or it s authorities, the delimitation of international frontiers and boundaries and/or 
the name and designation of any territory, city or area. Based on data up to mid-December 2022. 
Sources: Auer, Cornelli, Doerr, Frost and Gambacorta (2022); Cornelli et al (2023); CCData; Sensor Tower. 
In stormy seas, “the whales eat the krill” Graph 6
A. As prices tumbled… B. …all users traded more… 1 C. …but whales sold while krill 
bought2 
31 Mar 2022 = 100  t–1 = 100  t–1 = 100 
 
  
 
a  TerraUSD and Luna turmoil, 8 May 2022.    b  FTX collapse, 7 November 2022. 
1  Based on daily active users of crypto exchange apps.    2  Based on the number of BTC held in a ddresses with balances of less than 1 BTC 
(small), 1–1,000 BTC (medium) and more than 1,000 BTC (large). 
Sources: Cornelli et al (2023); IntoTheBlock; Sensor Tower. 
60,000
45,000
30,000
15,000
0
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.0
2221201918171615
Bitcoin price (daily)Lhs:
Crypto exchange app DAUs1Rhs:
HK
SG
> 80%
70−80%
60−70%
50−60%
10−50%
N/A
% of users that
downloaded an app
when Bitcoin price > $ 20,000:
100
75
50
25
0
Q3 2022Q1 2022
ab
Bitcoin
Ether
Terra (Luna)
FTX-token
160
140
120
100
t–5t–4t–3t–2t–1 t0t+1t+2t+3t+4t+5
     Binance
     Coinbase
     FTX
Terra (Luna):
 
 
 
FTX:
Days from the episode
102
101
100
99
t–5t–4t–3t–2t–1 t0t+1t+2t+3t+4t+5
     Large
     Medium
     Small
Terra (Luna):
 
 
 
FTX:
Days from the episode

=== PAGE 16 ===
 
The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 13
 
Crypto is probably also used for illicit activiti es such as money laundering, the financing of 
terrorism and tax evasion. Pseudo-anonymity and lack of oversight certainly contribute to these risks. The 
use of crypto thereby presents important challenges for regulators and law enforcement agencies, as they 
may find it hard to track and trace crypto transactio ns. To address these risks, measures aimed at better 
governance, anti-money la undering (AML) and combat ing the financing of te rrorism (CFT) are needed. 
Effective governance frameworks can ensure that market participan ts are operating in a transparent and 
accountable manner, promoting the integrity of the financial system. The Financial Action Task Force has 
developed guidance on registration and licensing requirements for service providers in the crypto space 
(FATF (2021, 2022)). 
3.2.2 Risks in DeFi  
The DeFi ecosystem amplifies several risks that are al so present in the traditional financial system (FSB 
(2023)). Of particular relevance are operational risk s, its reliance on levera ge and the complex web of 
interconnections within the system, which make it particularly prone to episodes of instability. 
Operational risks  
While all services are subject to operational risk, a num ber of DeFi features make such risks particularly 
acute. These may cause operational disruptions and hinder the ability to deliver services and products.  
The first type of operational risks in DeFi are those linked to governance  frameworks. As these 
frameworks are often unclear, opaque, untested and easy to manipulate, they can mislead users about the 
claims and safeguards of DeFi activities. In addition , there is uncertainty over what ex post remedial 
protections are available to participants. For instance, developers and founders at times lack the incentives 
to maintain DApps once they receive the initial inve stment. This may expose users to losing their money 
in “rug pulls” – a risk that is compounded by the difficulty of making developers and founders accountable 
for their actions, as their economic incentives are unclearly expressed and poorly disclosed and the system 
features a pseudo-anonymous structure. 
The need for centralisation poses further problems. The holding of voting power across major 
decentralised autonomous organisations (DAOs) – which are responsible for managing many DApps – is 
highly concentrated, implying that in practice only a few controlling actors can propose, pass or implement 
initiatives (Feichtinger et al (2023)). Disagreements about governance decisions can occur, leading to forks 
and network splits. This can materialise in losses for in vestors and a loss of confidence in DeFi protocols, 
which could spill over to other markets. 
The second type of operational risk in DeFi is linked to its dependence on the proper functioning 
of the underlying blockchains. Disr uptions to the blockchain caused by outages, network congestion or 
consensus failure can affect the cost, functioning and performance of the blockchain and the DeFi services 
that rely on it.  
A third source of operational risk is the use of smart contracts. Smart contracts need to account 
for many possible states of the wo rld before they are deployed, crea ting complexity. In turn, such 
complexity increases the potential for coding errors and consequent unexpected behaviour. Immutability 
implies that it is not possible to correct mistakes and reinstate the status quo ante without the consensus 
of blockchain validators.  
Fourth, oracles and bridges can be an addition al source of operational risk in DeFi. The 
functioning of many DeFi protocols critically relies on  oracles. Errors in, manipulation of, or attacks on 
oracles may trigger actions in one protocol (eg liquida tions or margin calls) with  unanticipated negative 
consequences in other protocols (eg in algorithmic reserve assets or collateral management). Therefore, 
oracles could be critical in initiating or propagating a shock.  

=== PAGE 17 ===
 
14 The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 
 
A similar risk is related to cr oss-chain bridges. Separate bloc kchains are not interoperable, 
requiring bridges that connect protocols across various blockchains. Typically, a bridge will hold (collect) 
assets from one chain or protocol and issue or releas e assets on another chain or protocol for the same 
value. This allows asset holders to transact across chains or protocols but creates repositories potentially 
holding large amounts of assets, rendering them targets for theft and misappropriation.   
Collateral and leverage 
Due to pseudo-anonymity, financial intermediation in De Fi largely rests on the re-use of collateral. The 
reason is that the identity of bo rrowers and lenders is hidden behind  cryptographic digital signatures. 
Lenders thus cannot access information such as borrowers’ credit scores, but require crypto collateral to 
align incentives.15  
The ubiquitous presence of collateral leads to procyclicality and can trigger sharp adjustments in 
prices that have knock-on effects on other market segments. In booms, appreciating prices mean that 
collateral values increase, while colla teralisation ratios fall. In busts, loans are liquidated as prices – and 
hence collateral values – decline sharply, suppressing lending activity. This mechanism is further amplified 
when borrowed cryptoassets are used as collateral fo r additional loans (akin to rehypothecation). The 
specific features of DeFi relating to the management of leverage – in particular, the automatic liquidation 
of collateral – are a primary reason why deleveraging dynamics in DeFi can be especially strong.  
Automated risk managemen t tools serve to protect the lender but raise financial stability 
concerns for the DeFi ecosystem due to their system -wide effects. In these pr otocols, loans for which 
collateral falls in value below a ce rtain threshold trigger an automati c liquidation. If these liquidations 
occur under stressed conditions, collateral may be forc ibly liquidated into a market with low liquidity, 
pushing collateral prices down further, leading to contagion. In the traditional financial system, such self-
reinforcing dynamics can be alleviated via orderly liquidation at central counterparties or by human 
intervention, or it can be arrested by market circuit breakers. Such mechanisms are absent in DeFi. 
Intra-connectedness and complexity 
DApps are considerably interconnected with each other. Further, the DeFi ecosystem as a whole is closely 
intertwined with other parts of the crypto ecosyste m. Thanks to the composability properties of DeFi, 
DApps often employ multiple smart contracts and intera ct with multiple protocols, which create strong 
interdependencies across smart contracts. As a result, problems in a single smart contract could propagate 
across the entire ecosystem. As such, composability can amplify the reach and speed of financial contagion 
within DeFi or lead smart contracts to interact in unexpected ways. Compounding this issue is the fact that 
smart contract code is widely re-us ed, such that seemingl y independent contracts may in practice be 
subject to the same vulnerabilities. In sum, the various components of DeFi are highly interconnected, so 
that assessing one element of the cryp to system in isolation falls short of  assessing its role in the overall 
ecosystem. 
3.2.3 Interconnectedness with the traditional financial system 
The interplay between the crypto market, traditiona l finance and the real economy has remained limited 
so far (Auer, Farag, Lewrick, Orazem and Zoss (2022)). As crypto remains a largely self-referential vehicle 
used mainly for speculation, this is perhaps not surprisi ng. In fact, the existing links result in large part 
from crypto’s need to interact with traditional finance to sustain its growth. However, institutional investors 
and households continue to show interest in crypto despite the events of the past year. Hence the potential 
for these linkages to grow further cannot be ignored.  
 
15  Aramonte et al (2022) develop these arguments in more detail.  

=== PAGE 18 ===
 
The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 15
 
Among these linkages, the relationship between crypto an d the core banking sector is of 
particular importance. The fall in crypto prices that started in the se cond half of 2022 did eventually spill 
over to the traditional financial system. In March 2 023, for instance, California- based Silvergate Bank – 
widely touted as a key “crypto bank” – had to cease operations after haemorrhaging a large amount of 
client deposits. Similarly Signature Bank, which also specialised in serving the crypto industry, was wound 
down by authorities shortly thereafter. These cases highlight that a business model that is highly exposed 
to crypto can be problematic for the banking sector. 
Banks could also increase connections to crypto through credit provision to counterparties with 
crypto exposures or through custody and other crypto-related services to their clients. Recognising those 
risks, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) recently endorsed a global prudential standard 
for banks’ exposures to cryptoassets (BCBS (2022)). Moreover, risks along the bank-crypto nexus extend 
beyond (direct and indirect) exposu res because of the potential negati ve externalities associated with 
banks channelling funds into the crypto ecosystem, gi ven their role as the mainstay of the monetary 
system. Along with banks, other financial entities such as family offices, hedge funds and asset managers 
could also increase their crypto investments, lured by the potentially high returns.  
Tokenisation of claims on real-world assets, such as stocks or real estate, is another way through 
which the interconnections between traditional financ e and crypto could grow. Th is could result in the 
growth of crypto itself, as new money gets channelled into such tokenised assets. It could also engender 
a more complex web of interconnections between crypto  and traditional finance as  the activities of the 
entities in these two ecosystems become more intertwi ned. In this scenario, the systemic importance of 
the crypto ecosystem could increase substantially.  
Crypto’s growing interconnectedness with tradit ional finance and the real economy may also 
pose a threat to monetary sovereignty. The availa bility of stablecoins, in particular, may facilitate 
cryptoisation, ie the substitution of local currencies with crypto-based ones. 16  During periods of 
macroeconomic instability and depreciating exchange rates, holders of domestic fiat currencies might shift 
into alternative currencies, putting additional pressure on the domestic currency itself. Such a behaviour 
may result in the loss of monetary sovereignty for domestic monetary authorities as well as the crowding 
out of funding for local financial institutions, with long-term consequences for the overall monetary and 
financial stability of these countries. To be sure, the risk of currency substitution is always present and it is 
incumbent upon each jurisdiction to manage it properly. However, the existence of crypto and stablecoins 
can substantially increase the likelihood of such scenarios materialising, as it makes currency substitution 
much easier in practice. Should stablecoins be issued by big tech companies, taking advantage of the self-
reinforcing data-network-activities loop that enables them to exploit ever-growing network effects (Shin 
(2019)), the threat to monetary sovereignty may be greatly exacerbated. 
Interconnections between crypto and the traditional financial system can work both ways. For 
instance, as a consequence of the bank turmoil in  March 2023, some stablecoins lost their peg – most 
notably USDCoin after disclosing that a substantial a mount of its cash reserve was deposited in Silicon 
Valley Bank. Stablecoins that used USDCoin as a reserv e asset also broke par, whereas other stablecoins 
traded at a premium. These events demonstrated that it is likely not possible to develop truly stable 
stablecoins, ie stablecoins that can maintain their peg against all circumstances, even if they invest mainly 
or exclusively in safe assets. 
3.2.4 Risks to emerging market and developing economies 
Several risks related to crypto and stablecoins ar e exacerbated in emerging market and developing 
economies (Feyen et al (2021), UNCTAD (2023), Prasad (2023)).  
 
16  See IMF (2021). 

=== PAGE 19 ===
 
16 The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 
 
First, stablecoins could pose severe risks to th e integrity of the financial system, including for 
AML/CFT. While this risk is present in all countr ies, resource constraints in emerging market and 
developing economies (EMDEs) may make it more difficu lt for authorities to keep pace and adjust their 
surveillance, regulatory and supervisory frameworks.  
Second, stablecoins pegged to foreign currencies would fluctuate in value against local currencies 
in EMDEs. If used for debt contracts, this would be a de facto new form of foreign exchange (FX) lending, 
which has been at the heart of many financial crises in EMDEs. 
Third, stablecoins could import the monetary polic ies of the fiat currenci es in the basket, which 
may not be optimal for most EMDEs and could thus impinge on their monetary autonomy (IMF (2023a)). 
Countries with large cross-border inflows in stableco ins may face difficulties in maintaining international 
reserves in hard fiat currencies. This has implicatio ns for the functioning of FX and interbank markets, 
which are shallower in EMDEs. Liquidity and redemption shocks may thus create disruptive spillovers. 
Fourth, and related to the points above, the risks of cryptoisation outlined in the previous section 
are particularly acute for EMDEs. Stablecoins can facilitate currency substitution and the evasion of 
measures that EMDEs may use to defend their currencies during periods of elevated FX volatility. 
Fifth, given reach, scale, network and “winner takes all” effects, EMDEs might end up as a “host” 
to entities in a stablecoin system that provide crit ical services such as go vernance and reserve asset 
management, which may be headquartered elsewhere. This could create a misalignment of incentives 
between “home” and “host” supervisors, impeding a holistic oversight. As such, EMDE authorities may lack 
control over the broader stableco in arrangement and its operations that involve residents. When 
domestically adopted at scale, this could inhibit ri sk monitoring and effective oversight of payments to 
prevent illicit use and to safeguard financial stability. 
3.3 Addressing the risks in crypto 
The numerous risks posed by crypto have naturally generated a debate on the optimal policy strategies 
for mitigating them. A BIS Bulletin (Aquilina et al (2023)) outlined three non-mutua lly exclusive lines of 
a c t i o n  t h a t  c o u l d  b e  p u r s ued in the policy toward crypto – namely, a combination of containment, 
regulation and bans. The Bulletin contains details of the three approaches, together with specific examples.  
Several jurisdictions are already taking variou s policy actions along the above spectrum. More 
concretely, this includes bans, restrictions, clarifications, bespoke requirements and initiatives to facilitate 
innovation.17  Most initiatives adopted so far tend to ta rget centrally managed acti vities (most notably, 
issuers of security tokens and stablecoins) and are a function of market developments in each jurisdiction.  
Multilateral initiatives in this area, coordinated by the Financial Stability Board (FSB), are already 
taking steps to reach consensus on  the appropriate regulatory action s. The FSB has already published 
a proposed framework for the international regulation  of cryptoasset activities (FSB (2022)). This 
framework contains two core components. First, it makes recommendations that promote the consistency 
and comprehensiveness of regulatory, supervisory and oversight approaches to cryptoasset activities and 
markets, and strengthen international cooperation, coordination and information-sharing. Second, it sets 
out revised high-level recommendations for the r egulation, supervision and oversight of “global 
stablecoin” arrangements to address the associated financial stability risks more effectively. The IMF has 
also published its view on the core  elements of an effective policy framework for addressing the risks 
posed by cryptoassets (IMF (2023b)). 
 
17  See FSI (2023) for an overview  of the crypto regulatory landscape across 19 jurisdictions.  

=== PAGE 20 ===
 
The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 17
 
More broadly, public authorities could also complement the above lines of action by encouraging 
sound innovation within the traditional financial sy stem or through the use of central bank digital 
currencies (Aquilina et al (2023)). Improving the quality and reducing the costs of payments would be an 
important component of such a strategy. This coul d be achieved by introducing retail fast payment 
systems, such as the Unified Payment Interface (UPI) in India, Pix in Brazil, FedNow in the United States or 
initiatives such as the Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA). Another important component of this broader 
strategy would be issuing central ba nk digital currencies that meet re al needs. If properly designed and 
implemented, such initiatives could support sound private sector in novation, while reducing the cost of 
payments, enhancing financial inclusion and bolstering the integrity of the financial system. 
3.4 Addressing data gaps: Project Atlas 
Data on crypto activities come from two sources:  on-chain data from blockchains and off-chain data 
reported by market actors. Data are spread across a vast network of distributed ledgers, exchanges and 
other providers. Figures on basic indicators such as market size and crypto usage hence lack transparency, 
consistency and reliability (ESRB (2023)). 
Data gaps hamper efforts to develop a cohe rent monitoring framework for crypto at 
large.18  These issues stem in large part from (i) the difficulty in aggregating, reconciling and analysing the 
data available on distributed ledgers; (ii) the pseudo -anonymity that inhibits the ability to ascertain the 
types of cryptoasset investors who may be the beneficiaries of multiple wallets; and (iii) the large number 
of off-chain transactions. These data gaps stand in the way of a proper assessment of potential risks. 
In response to these data cha llenges, the BIS Innovation Hub Eu rosystem Centre, the Deutsche 
Bundesbank and De Nederlandsche Bank have initiated Project Atlas, which will shed light on the 
macroeconomic relevance of crypto asset markets and DeFi. The data will be based on a transparent 
methodology and tailored to the needs of public au thorities. It will blend reported data gathered from 
crypto exchanges and stablecoin is suers with data from public blockchains. By attributing blockchain 
transactions to crypto exchanges and their geographic locations, Atlas will be able to derive and visualise 
cross-border flows around the globe. 
Preliminary data from Project Atlas reveal that, al though relatively small in comparison to total 
network traffic, flows between ce ntralised crypto exchanges are subs tantial (Graph 7.A). Attributing 
geographic locations to exchanges (where possible) lays out the structure of  cross-border flows and 
provides a starting point for evaluating the relative economic significance across jurisdictions (Graphs 7.A 
and 7.B). This indicates non-negligible – and growing – use of cryptocurrencies for cross-border capital 
flows. 
Nevertheless, further steps are needed for a holistic assessment of crypto markets. Cooperation 
on data collection and monitoring by individual jurisdictions can facilitate the development of appropriate 
policy responses. Such cooperation could also help with enforcement actions for illicit activities. Currently 
the lack of standards implies that data on crypto are usually limited to what companies report voluntarily 
or dependent on companies whose business model is to  sell data to market participants. For on-chain 
data, the choice of methodologies greatly influences the reported numbers while the exact heuristics and 
methodologies are often unclear. Accordingly, data are often reported different ly by various analytics 
companies and are difficult to compare across time and space.  
With respect to DeFi, the FSB (2023) highlights thr ee types of indicators that authorities should 
be monitoring to assess vulnerabilities and risks. First,  indicators that can help to gauge the overall size 
and evolution of the sector. Second, indicators especially designed to assess financial vulnerabilities. And 
 
18  See FSB (2023) and IMF (2023). 

=== PAGE 21 ===
 
18 The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 
 
third, indicators that can help gauge the potential for spillovers by tracking and assessing interconnections 
between DeFi, CeFi, traditional finance and the real economy. 
Bitcoin flows between exchanges1 Graph 7
A. Inter-exchange and total flows1  B. Inflows by continent 2 
USD bn USD bn  USD bn 
 
 
 
C. Net flows by country4 
 
1  Inter-exchange flows are a lower bound estimate. The calculation of total flows excludes certain transaction types (eg coinbase transactions), 
flows between the same addresses as inputs and outputs in a transaction and transactions between addresses attributed to the same crypto 
exchange.    2  Preliminary daily data for the period Jan–Dec 2022, based on the location of exchanges for which flows are identified, not on
users’ location.    3  Latin America and Oceania.    4  The use of this map does not constitute, and should not be construed as constituting, an
expression of a position by the BIS regarding the legal status or sovereignty of any territory or its authorities, the delimitation of international 
frontiers and boundaries and/or the name and designation of an y territory, city or area. The circles represent Antigua and Barb uda, Hong
Kong SAR, Seychelles and Singapore. Preliminary daily data for the period Jan–Dec 2022, based on the location of exchanges for which flows
are identified, not on users’ location. 
Source: BIS Innovation Hub Eurosystem Centre Project Atlas. 
16
12
8
4
0
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
232221201918171615141312111009
Value of inter-exchange bitcoin flows (lhs)
Total value of bitcoin flows (rhs)
20
15
10
5
0
Africa Asia Europe  North  Other 3
America
Africa
Asia
Europe
Inflows from: North America
Other3
Outflows bigger than $1bn
Inflows bigger than $1bn
Outflows smaller than $1bn
Inflows smaller than $1bn

=== PAGE 22 ===
 
The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 19
 
Developing an accurate picture of crypto and DeFi will require a considerable amount of work to 
standardise definitions, processes an d approaches. Work on these issues is alread y ongoing in the Data 
Gaps Initiative, as welcomed by G20 leaders in November 2022.19 
4.  Conclusions 
In just over a decade, crypto has gone from niche activity to something that impinges on the mainstream 
financial system. While initially it was the preserve of a small set of enthusiasts, millions of retail users as 
well as more and more institutional investors have entered the crypto ecosystem in recent years. 
Crypto offers some elements of genuine innovation, such as programmability and composability. 
With these new functionalities, sequences of financ ial transactions could be automated and seamlessly 
integrated. Together with tokenisation, this has the potential to reduce the need for manual interventions 
that currently delay transactions and create costs (Carstens (2023), Aldasoro et al (2023)).  
That said, crypto has so far failed to harness innovation to the benefit of society. Crypto remains 
largely self-referential and does not finance real economic activity. It suffers from inherent shortcomings 
related to stability and efficiency, as well as accountability and integrity. These structural flaws result from 
the underlying economics of incentives rather than technological limitations. Furthermore, while DeFi and 
crypto for the most part replicate services offered by the traditional financial system, they can exacerbate 
known vulnerabilities. Taken together, the key takeaway s from this report suggest that crypto’s inherent 
structural flaws make it unsuitable to play a significant role in the monetary system.  
  
 
19  See IMF (2022). 

=== PAGE 23 ===
 
20 The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 
 
References 
Ahmed, R, I Aldasoro and C Duley (2 023): “Par for the course: public information and stablecoin runs”, 
mimeo. 
Aldasoro, I, S Doerr, L Gambacorta, R Garratt and P Koo Wilkens (2023): “The tokenisation continuum”, BIS 
Bulletin, no 72, April. 
Alvarez, F, D Argente and D Van Patten (2022): “Are cryptocurrencies currencies? Bitcoin as legal tender in 
El Salvador”, NBER Working Papers, no 29968. 
Aquilina, M, J Frost and A Schrimpf (2023): “Addressing the risks in crypto, laying out the options”, BIS 
Bulletin, no 66, January. 
Aramonte, S, W Huang and A Schrimpf (2021): “DeFi risks and the decentralisation illusion”, BIS Quarterly 
Review, December. 
Aramonte, S, S Doerr, W Huang and A Schrimpf  (2022): “DeFi lending: intermediation without 
information?”, BIS Bulletin, no 57, June. 
Arner, D, R Auer and J Frost (2020): “Stablecoins: risks, potential and regulation”, Bank of Spain Financial 
Stability Review, November.  
Auer, R (2022): “Embedded supervision: how to bu ild regulation into decentralized finance”, 
Cryptoeconomic Systems, vol 2, no 1, June. 
Auer, R, G Cornelli, S Doerr, J Frost and L Gambacorta (2022): “Crypto trading and Bitcoin prices: evidence 
from a new database of retail adoption”, BIS Working Papers, no 1049, November. 
Auer, R, M Farag, U Lewrick, L Orazem and M Zoss  (2022): “Banking in the shadow of Bitcoin? The 
institutional adoption of cryptocurrencies”, BIS Working Papers, no 1013. 
Auer, R, J Frost and J Vidal Pastor (2022): ”Miners as intermediaries: extractable value and market 
manipulation in crypto and DeFi”, BIS Bulletin, no 58, June. 
Bank for International Settleme nts (BIS) (2018): “Cryptocurrencies: looking beyond the hype”, Annual 
Economic Report, June, Chapter V. 
——— (2022): “The future monetary system”, Annual Economic Report, June, Chapter III. 
——— (2023): “Blueprint for the future monetary system: improving the old, enabling the new”, Annual 
Economic Report, June, Chapter III. 
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) (2022): “Prudential treatment of cryptoasset exposures – 
second consultation”, June. 
Boissay, F, G Cornelli, S Doerr and J Frost (2022): “Blockchain scalability and the fragmentation of crypto”, 
BIS Bulletin, no 56, June. 
Budish, E (2022): “The economic limits of bitcoin and anonymous, decentralized trust on the blockchain”, 
University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Papers, no 83. 
Buterin, V (2016): “Chain interoperability”, R3 Reports. 
——— (2021): “Why sharding is great: demystifying th e technical properties”, 
vitalik.ca/general/2021/04/07/sharding.html. 
Carstens, A (2023): “Innovation and the future of the monetary system”, keynote speech at the Monetary 
Authority of Singapore, 22 February. 

=== PAGE 24 ===
 
The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 21
 
Catalini, C and A de Gortari (2021): “On the economic design of stablecoins”, mimeo.  
Chen, S, S Doerr, J Frost, L Gambacorta and H S Shin (2023): “The fintech gender gap”, Journal of Financial 
Intermediation, vol 54. 
Cornelli, G, S Doerr, J Frost and L Gambacorta (2023): “Crypto shocks and retail losses”, BIS Bulletin, no 69, 
February. 
Doerr, S, L Gambacorta, L Guiso and M Sanchez del Villar (2023): “Privacy regulation and fintech lending”, 
BIS Working Papers, no 1103. 
Duley, C, L Gambacorta, R Garratt and P Koo Wilkens (2023): “The oracle problem and the future of DeFi”, 
BIS Bulletin, forthcoming. 
European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) (2023): “Cry pto-assets and decentralised finance. Systemic 
implications and policy options”, May. 
Feichtinger, R, R Fritsch, Y Volanthen and R Wattehofer (2023): “The hidden shortcomings of (D)AOs – an 
empirical study of on-chain governance”, mimeo. 
Feyen, E, J Frost, H Natarajan and T Rice (2021): “What does digital money mean for emerging market and 
developing economies?”, in R Rau, R Wardrop and L Zingales (eds), The Palgrave Handbook of 
Technological Finance, pp 217–41. 
Financial Action Task Force (FATF) (2021): Virtual assets and virtual asset service providers, updated guidance 
for a risk-based approach, October. 
——— (2022): Targeted update on implementation of the FATF standards on virtual assets and virtual asset 
service providers, June.  
Financial Stability Board (FSB) (2022): “Assessment of  risks to financial stab ility from crypto-assets”, 
February. 
——— (2023): “The financial stability risks from decentralised finance”, February. 
Financial Stability Institute (FSI) (2023): “Crypto, tokens and DeFi: navigating the regulatory landscape”, FSI 
Insights on Policy Implementation, forthcoming. 
Frost, J, P Wierts and H S Shin (2020): “An early stablecoin? The Bank of Amsterdam and the governance 
of money”, BIS Working Papers, no 902, November. 
Garratt, R and H S Shin (2023): “Stablecoins versus to kenised deposits: implications for the singleness of 
money”, BIS Bulletin, no 73. 
Gorton, G and J Zhang (2022): “Taming wildcat stablecoins”, University of Chicago Law Review, vol 90. 
Huberman, G, J Leshno and C Moallemi (2021): “Monopoly without a monopolist: An economic analysis of 
the bitcoin payment system”, The Review of Economic Studies, vol 88, no 6, pp 3011–40. 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) (2021): “The crypto ecosystem and financial stability challenges”, Global 
Financial Stability Report, October, Chapter 2. 
——— (2022): “G20 Leaders welcome new data gaps initia tive to address climate change, inclusion and 
financial innovation”, Press Release, no 22/410, November. 
——— (2023a): “G20 note on the macrofinancial  implications of cryptoassets”, February. 
——— (2023b): “Elements of effective policies for crypto assets”, IMF Policy Paper, February. 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) (2022): Decentralized finance report, March. 
Nakamoto, S (2008): “Bitcoin: a peer-to-peer electronic cash system”, white paper. 

=== PAGE 25 ===
 
22 The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 
 
Neilson, D H (2021): Stablecoins and DeFi : Banking for unattended contracts, Soon Parted, 12 October, 
https://www.soonparted.co/p/stablecoins-defi.. 
Prasad, E (2023): “Managing risks from crypto assets and decentralized finance: an emerging market and 
developing economy perspective”, Background Note for G-20 Discussions on Regulation of Crypto Assets, 
June.  
Schär, F (2021): “Decentralized fi nance: on blockchain- and smart contract-based financial markets”, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, Review, vol 103, no 2, April. 
Shin, H S (2019): “Big tech in finance: opportunities and risks”, speech at the BIS Annual General Meeting, 
June. 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Developmen t (UNCTAD) (2023): “Note on the macrofinancial 
implications of crypto assets for developing countries”, April. 
  

=== PAGE 26 ===
 
The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 23
 
Glossary 
This glossary sets out a (non-exhaustive) list of terms used in the report. The definitions are based primarily 
on previous reports by international organisations and standard-setting bodies.  
Asset-backed token: A cryptoasset that represents an interest in a physical asset. 
Blockchain: A form of distributed ledger in which details of transactions are held in the ledger in the form 
of blocks of information. A block of new information is attached into the chain of pre-existing blocks via a 
computerised process by which transactions are validated. 
Bridge: A technique used to transfer cryp toassets between ecosystems by, typically, creating a synthetic 
representation of a blockchain-specific cryptoasset on a different blockchain. 
Centralised exchange (CEX): A cryptoasset trading platform that facilitates the buying and selling of 
cryptoassets, either for fiat currencies or for an other digital asset. The pl atform functions as an 
intermediary and sometimes provides custody and other services. 
Centralised finance (CeFi): Centralised intermediaries (for example lending or trading platforms) within 
the crypto ecosystem that purport to offer some of the features of DeFi with some of the ease of use and 
security of traditional financial services products. 
Composability: the ability to reuse existing software compon ents to build new applications. The crypto 
industry refers to composability as akin to Lego blocks. Each block can be combined with another, allowing 
developers to build complex structures by combining different blocks. 
Consensus mechanism: In DLT applications, the process by wh ich validators agree on the state of a 
distributed ledger. 
Cryptoasset: A type of private sector digi tal asset that is expressed prim arily through cryptography and 
distributed ledger or similar technology. 
Cryptoisation: The risk of local currency substitution wi th cryptoassets, most likely dollar-denominated 
stablecoins. This is a particular risk for countries with unstable currencies and weak monetary frameworks.  
Decentralised autonomous organization (DAO): In theory, a decentralised application consisting of 
rules of operation that dictate who can execute a certain behaviour or make an upgrade. Code helps create 
an organisational structure intended to function without a centralised management structure. 
Decentralised applications (DApps): DeFi applications offering services such as lending or trading, 
predominantly between cryptoassets including stablecoins. 
Decentralised exchange (DEX): Marketplaces built using distributed ledger or similar technology where 
transactions can occur directly between cryptoasset traders. 
Decentralised finance (DeFi): A set of alternative financial market s, products and sy stems that operate 
using cryptoassets and smart contracts (software) built using distributed ledger or similar technology. 
DeFi protocol: A specialised system of rule s that creates a program designed to perform traditional 
financial functions.  
Digital asset: A digital instrument that is issued or repres ented through the use of distributed ledger or 
similar technology. This does not incl ude digital representations of fiat cu rrencies. It is also called a coin 
or token. 
Distributed ledger technology (DLT): A means of saving information through a distributed ledger, ie a 
repeated digital copy of data available at multiple locations. 

=== PAGE 27 ===
 
24 The crypto ecosystem: key elements and risks 
 
Gas fees: Unit that relates to the amount of computational effort required to execute specific operations 
on the Ethereum network. Gas refers to the fee required to conduct a transaction on Ethereum. 
Governance tokens : Tokens issued as an incentive, allowing  the user the purported opportunity to 
become a partial owner and decision-maker in a DeFi protocol. 
Mining: One means to create new cryptoassets, often through a mathematical process by which 
transactions are verified and added to the distributed ledger. 
Native token: The base token of a blockchain which plays an integral part in the operation of the protocol 
it is issued on and that is created at the blockchain’s genesis. It is usually used to pay transaction fees. 
Oracle: A service that enables smart contracts to access, in real time, relevant external or off-chain data by 
means of queries typically through crypto exchan ge application programmin g interfaces and which 
provides inputs to smart contracts.  
Order book exchange: A type of decentralised exchange (DEX) that uses smart contracts for transaction 
settlement and order books, which are usually held off- chain by a third party, for registration of buy and 
sell orders. 
Proof of stake: A blockchain-specific consensus mechanism for validating entries into a distributed 
database and keeping the database secure based on validators’ pledging or “staking” a certain amount of 
cryptoassets in order to have a chance to be chosen for the creation of a new block. 
Proof of work: A blockchain-specific consensus mechanism for validating entries into a distributed 
database and keeping the database secure where potential validators compete with one another to solve 
cryptographic puzzles in order to be allowed to add transactions to the distributed ledger. 
Pseudonymous data: Data that cannot be attributed to a specific individual, without the use of additional 
information. 
Rug pull: A cryptoasset market scam in which a development team attracts investors into a project before 
disappearing with investor funds, leaving investors with a valueless asset. 
Side-chain: A type of off-chain scaling solution that help s overcome capacity restrictions inherent to 
traditional blockchain networks by leveraging a separate and independently run blockchain network that 
is connected to the original one by a two-way bridge. 
Smart contract: A cryptoasset term that refers to self-executing applications that can trigger an action if 
some pre-specified conditions are met. 
Stablecoin: A cryptoasset that aims to maintain a stable va lue relative to a specified asset, or a pool or 
basket of assets. 
Staking: Is the process of locking up cryptoassets for a set period of time to help support the operation 
of a blockchain in return for a share of transaction fees. 
Tokenisation: The process of creating a digi tal representation (token) of an asset and putting it on a 
programmable ledger. The information stored in tokenised form can include asset type, ownership details, 
valuation, legal framework, optionality and settlement requirements 
Total value locked: Industry-reported measure of the total value of assets deposited in a DeFi protocol. 
Validator: An individual or entity responsible for verifying transactions on a blockchain.  
Wallet: An application or device for storing the private keys providing access to the cryptoasset. Hosted 
wallets are typically held by a third-party provider, unhosted wallets by the user. 
Wallet provider: A firm that offers storage services to investors in cryptoassets. These may be connected 
online (“hot” storage) or kept offline (“cold” storage). 