

=== PAGE 1 ===
 
 
 
 
 
FSB Global Regulatory Framework for 
Crypto-Asset Activities 
Umbrella public note to accompany final framework  
  
17 July 2023 
 

=== PAGE 2 ===
 
 
 
The Financial Stability Board (FSB) coordinate s at the international level the work of national 
financial authorities and international standard -setting bodies in order to develop and promote 
the implementation of effective regulatory, supervisory and other financial sector policies. Its 
mandate is set out in the FSB Charter, which governs the policymaking and related activities of 
the FSB. These activities, including any decisions reached in their context, shall not be binding 
or give rise to any legal rights or obligations. 
 
Contact the Financial Stability Board 
Sign up for e-mail alerts:  www.fsb.org/emailalert 
Follow the FSB on Twitter:  @FinStbBoard 
E-mail the FSB at:  fsb@fsb.org 
Copyright © 2023 Financial Stability Board. Please refer to the terms and conditions

=== PAGE 3 ===
 
 
iii 
 
Table of Contents 
Overview ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............................  1 
1. Background ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................... 2 
2. The FSB’s approach to establishing a comprehensive regulatory framework .................. 3 
3. Recent events and implications for the regulation and supervision of crypto -asset 
activities and stablecoins ................................ ................................ ................................  5 
4. Next steps ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................... 6 
5. Annex: FSB-SSB shared workplan ................................ ................................ ................. 8 
 
 
 
  

=== PAGE 4 ===
 
iv 
 

=== PAGE 5 ===
 
 
1 
 
Overview 
The FSB is finalising its global regulatory framework for crypto -asset activities to promote the 
comprehensiveness and international consistency of regulatory and supervisory approaches. It 
consists of two distinct sets of recommendations: 
(i) High-level recommendations for the regulation, supervision and oversight of crypto-
asset activities and markets (CA recommendations); 
(ii) Revised high-level recommendations for the regulation, supervision, and oversight of 
“global stablecoin” arrangements (GSC recommendations). 
The framework is based on the principle of “same activity, same risk, same regulation ” and 
provides a strong basi s for ensuring that crypto -asset activities and so -called stablecoins are 
subject to consistent and comprehensive regulation, commensurate to the risks they pose, while 
supporting responsible innovations potentially brought by the technological change.  The 
recommendations focus on addressing risks to financial stability, and they do not 
comprehensively cover all specific risk categories related to crypto -asset activities .1 It takes 
account of lessons from recent events in crypto-asset markets. Central Bank Digital Currencies 
(CBDCs), envisaged as digitalised central bank liabilities, are not subject to these 
recommendations.  
The events of the past year  have highlighted the intrinsic volatility and structural vulnerabilities 
of crypto-assets and related players. They have also illustrated that the failure of a key service 
provider in the crypto -asset ecosystem can quickly transmit risks to other parts of th at 
ecosystem. As r ecent events have illustrated,  if linkages to traditional finance  were to grow 
further, spillovers from crypto-asset markets into the broader financial system could increase.  
The G20 has asked the FSB to coordinate the delivery of an effective regulatory, supervisory 
and oversight framework for crypto -assets2, including finalising the FSB’s high -level 
recommendations for the supervision and regulation of crypto-asset activities, and of so-called 
global stablecoins (GSCs), by July 2023. In addition, these r ecommendations, constituting a 
regulatory and supervisory framework for crypto-assets and stablecoins, will provide input to a 
joint paper with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to be delivered to the G20 in September 
2023, which will support a coordinated and comprehensive policy approach to crypto-assets by 
synthesising the policy findings from IMF work on macroeconomic and monetary issues and 
FSB work on supervisory and regulatory issues. 
The FSB and the sectoral standard -setting bodies (SSBs) have d eveloped a shared workplan 
for 2023 and beyond, through which they will continue to coordinate work under their respective 
mandates to promote the development of a comprehensive and coherent global regulatory 
framework commensurate to the risks crypto-asset markets activities may pose to jurisdictions 
 
1  Other risks include AML/CFT; data privacy; cyber security; consumer and investor protection; market integrity; competition policy; 
taxation; monetary policy; monetary sovereignty and other macroeconomic concerns. 
2  Communiqué G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors Meeting, 17-18 February, Jakarta, Indonesia. 

=== PAGE 6 ===
 
2 
worldwide, including through the provision of more granular guidance by SSBs, monitoring and 
public reporting. 
1. Background 
Crypto-asset activities are global in nature, and these various activities transcend sectoral lines 
that divide traditional financial activities. The FSB, with its core mandate to coordinate the 
development of regulatory, supervisory, and other financial sector policies , was tasked by the 
G20 to promote cooperation among jurisdictional finan cial authorities and SSBs to ensure that 
crypto-asset activities are subject to robust regulation and supervision commensurate to the 
financial stability risks that they pose, while supporting responsible innovation.3  
In October 2022, the FSB published a proposed version of this framework, in the form of two 
separate sets of recommendations, for a public consultation that ran until 15 December 2022. A 
summary of the consultation responses, together with the individual r esponses, has been 
published separately. The FSB has carefully considered the responses, and held an outreach 
meeting in February 2023 to further discuss the responses from different viewpoints4. In light of 
that consideration and a review of recent event s in crypto -asset markets, the FSB is now 
publishing the final versions of the recommendations.  
This document (i) describes how the two distinct sets of recommendations build a framework for 
the regulation, supervision and oversight of global stablecoins arrangements and other crypto-
asset activities, that also addresses lessons from the events in 2022 and early 2023 in crypto -
asset markets; and (ii) sets out next steps.  
The FSB has been working closely with the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS), 
Bank for International Settlements’ Committee on Payments and Market Infrastructures (CPMI), 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), Financial Action Task Force 
(FATF), IMF, World Bank , and  Organization for Economic Cooperation an d Development 
(OECD) to ensure that the work underway regarding the monitoring and regulation of crypto -
asset activities and markets is coordinated, mutually supportive, and complementary.  
The FSB high-level recommendations take a broad approach to global stablecoins. International 
standards designed for specific sectors focus on distinct functions within the remit of the relevant 
standard setting bodies  (SSBs). Where international sectoral standards apply to a GSC for a 
particular economic function, those standards will address risks specific to the economic function 
and, as such, authorities should implement those international standards. 
To provide a holistic view of the crypto -asset regulatory and supervisory policy initiatives, the 
FSB and SSBs have developed a shared workplan that brings together their completed, ongoing, 
 
3  Communiqué G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors Meeting: “We encourage the FSB, in close coordination with 
other standard-setting bodies, to accelerate and deepen its work to monitor and share information on regulatory and supervisory 
approaches to unbacked cryptoassets, stablecoins, decentralized finance, and other forms of crypto-assets and to address any 
gaps and arbitrage, including by recommending coordinated and timely policy actions to preserve global financial stability, thus 
creating the necessary conditions for safe innovation.” G20, 17-18 February 2022, Jakarta, Indonesia. 
4  Comments on the consistency between both sets of recommendations have been addressed. In several cases difference s in 
wording between the two sets of recommendations exist to account for differences between stablecoins and crypto-assets. 

=== PAGE 7 ===
 
3 
and planned work. The SSBs are taking forward work, either individually or jointly , to help 
regulators tackle risks arising from crypto -assets and GSCs within their mandates and avoid  
over- and under-laps in the regulation of the sector. The SSBs’ work is critical in in taking forward 
more detailed sectoral standard setting, where needed, and exploring issues unique to each 
SSB’s mandate that may necessitate additional analytical work or policy measures in due 
course. A table reflecting a preliminary round of inputs by the FSB and SSBs is included in the 
Annex to this document.  
2. The FSB’s approach to establishing a comprehensive 
regulatory framework 
Since the publication of the FSB consultative reports, jurisdictional authorities have continued to 
work to strengthen the regulation and supervision of crypto-asset activities. Several jurisdictions 
have made progress in developing regulatory frameworks for crypto-assets and stablecoins and 
related activities. In some other jurisdictions, authorities continue to apply and enforce existing 
applicable requirements, laws and regulations on crypto-asset market participants that had been 
conducting activities in non-compliance with these existing requirements, laws and regulations. 
The development of regulations and implementation of requirements, and application and 
enforcement of existing requirements are consistent with the FSB’s framework and demonstrate 
that crypto -asset activities do not oper ate in a regulation -free space. C rypto-asset service 
providers must not commence operations in any jurisdiction unless any such service provider 
meets all applicable regulatory requirements. 
Taking into account the responses to the public consultation, the  final recommendations 
continue to build on the principles that informed the consultative framework, while integrating 
key aspects drawing on the experiences of the implementation of international standards by 
jurisdictional authorities. These principles are: 
■ “Same activity, same risk, same regulation” 
The FSB recommendations aim at ensuring that regulatory frameworks are applied to 
global stablecoin and crypto -asset activities commensurate to the risks that they may 
pose to financial stability. Regulatory frameworks should also ensure that any crypto -
asset activities seeking to perform an equivalent economic function to one in the 
traditional financial system are subject to the same or equivalent regulation irrespective 
of the way crypto -asset activities are conducted or the way these activities are 
marketed. 
■ High-level and flexible 
The FSB recommendations are high -level and allow for sufficient flexibility for 
jurisdictional authorities to implement them by applying relevant current regulations or 
developing new domestic regulatory frameworks, and to adapt to a currently rapidly 
evolving market. This approach also leaves adequate room for SSBs to develop 
granular standards that address sectoral issues within their respective mandates.  

=== PAGE 8 ===
 
4 
■ Technology neutral 
The FSB recommendations focus on addressing financial stability risks associated with 
global stablecoin and crypto-asset activities and are designed to be applicable across 
the different technologies that may be employed . Crypto-asset activities  must be 
regulated based on their economic functions and the risks they pose, irrespective of the 
technological means used. 
While the CA recommendations apply to any type of crypto-asset activity, including stablecoins, 
those stablecoins that could be widely used as a means of payment and/or store of value across 
multiple jurisdictions – GSCs – could pose particular risks to financial stability. Therefore, 
separate and complementary recommendations for crypto-asset activities that meet the 
definition of a GSC have been published to reflect their particular risks and heightened regulatory 
and supervisory requirements. The table below clarifies which regulatory principle is covered in 
each of the two sets of recommendations. In response to the public consultation, the language 
in each set of recommendations has been made more consistent with the other. 
Table 1: Coverage of the CA and GSC Recommendations 
Regulatory principle Coverage in GSC 
recommendations 
Coverage in CA 
recommendations 
Regulatory powers GSC Rec 1 CA Rec 1 
Comprehensive oversight GSC Rec 2 CA Rec 2 
Cross-border cooperation  GSC Rec 3 with an Annex CA Rec 3 
Governance GSC Rec 4 CA Rec 4 
Risk management GSC Rec 5 CA Rec 5 
Data management GSC Rec 6 CA Rec 6 
Recovery and resolution 
planning 
GSC Rec 7 CA Rec 5 
Disclosures GSC Rec 8 with an Annex CA Rec 7 
Monitoring of 
interconnections within the 
crypto-asset ecosystem and 
with the wider financial 
system 
[N/A] CA Rec 8 
Compliance before operation GSC Rec 10 CA Rec 1 
Redemption rights and 
stabilisation mechanisms 
GSC Rec 9 [N/A] 
Multiple functions [N/A] CA Rec 9 

=== PAGE 9 ===
 
5 
3. Recent events and implications for the regulation and 
supervision of crypto-asset activities and stablecoins  
The crypto-asset market has experienced significant turmoil since early 2022. In May 2022, a 
sharp decrease of crypto-asset prices demonstrated that the inherently high volatility of crypto-
asset markets can lead to sudden market strains and failures of crypto-asset intermediaries. The 
demise of the TerraUSD/LUNA coins and the de -pegging of a number of so -called stablecoins 
also highlighted their ineffective stabilisation mechanisms. The crypto-asset market was shaken 
again in November when FTX, one of the largest crypto -asset trading platforms at that time, 
went into bankruptcy. The FTX event has revealed a number of vulnerabilities that may arise 
from the vertical integration of business activities that are not adequately regulated  in all 
jurisdictions in which they operate, or are in non-compliance with existing regulations, as well as 
risks arising from non-compliance with existing requirements, including: a lack of transparency 
of corporate structure, key function holders and financial positions; misappropriation of clients’ 
funds; reliance on self-issued crypto-assets; and interconnectedness with affiliated entities. More 
recently in the US, the decline in  crypto-asset prices and activity led to one  bank that 
offered services to crypto -asset clients to  close and may have contr ibuted to the failure of 
another bank. Conversely, the failure of a  regional bank that offered deposit services to a 
stablecoin issuer contributed to a temporary de-pegging of its stablecoin because of uncertainty 
about the issuer’s access to its deposits. 
These events demonstrate interlinkages between crypto -asset markets and the traditional 
financial system. Although spillovers to the traditional financial system have been limited, stress 
events in crypto-asset markets caused significant losses to investo rs and shook confidence in 
these markets. Given the speed of developments in this area, interlinkages and possible 
spillovers between the crypto -asset and traditional financial systems  could markedly increase, 
reinforcing the need to be forward -looking and the importance of ensuring that the risks posed 
by crypto -assets to financial stability are addressed by appropriate and comprehensive 
regulation and supervision.  
These events have further highlighted that many crypto -asset activities involve economic 
functions similar to those in traditional finance and should be comprehensively regulated and/or 
brought into compliance with new or existing rules as appropriate. Most failed market 
participants, including those behind Terr aUSD/LUNA, Celsius Network, and FT X, engaged in 
functions similar to those of traditional finance. Those functions, when carried out without 
appropriate governance structures or in non -compliance with regulatory requirements, created 
vulnerabilities that have been identified by the FSB. They include liquidity and maturity mismatch, 
the build-up of leverage, the creation of complex interrelationships between service providers, 
and the integration of multiple functions under one or more related entities without appropriate 
governance structures, regulatory oversight, or in non -compliance with applicable regulatory 
frameworks. In light of these lessons learned, the FSB has strengthened both sets of high-level 
recommendations in three areas: 
■ Safeguarding of client assets: Financial service providers that hold or take control of 
assets from clients must ensure that these assets are effectively segregated from their 
own assets. Many crypto-asset service providers, however, are observed to extensively 
commingle proprietary assets with client assets,  often without consent of the clients. 
This enables these service providers to misuse customer assets and to amplify leverage 

=== PAGE 10 ===
 
6 
and liquidity transformation by the re -use of the commingled assets. When some of 
these intermediaries failed, significant losses to clients and investors resulted, and the 
failure to clarify ownership rights added complexity to insolvency proceedings. The high-
level recommendations have been strengthened by stating that authorities should 
require that crypto-asset service providers maintain adequate safeguarding of customer 
assets and protect ownership rights, including in insolvency. 
■ Conflicts of interest: Various crypto-asset intermediaries combine multiple functions. 
In some cases, they operate in ways that do  not comply with exis ting requirements, 
which typically require  that certain functions be conducted by different entities and 
subject to specific sectoral standards. Some entities are not transparent about their 
governance structures and set up complex structures of affiliated  entities that often 
finance each other, leading to acute conflicts of interest and increasing 
interconnectedness and the risk of contagion within crypto-asset markets. The FSB has 
strengthened the high-level recommendations by stating that authorities should have in 
place requirements to address the risks associated with conflicts of interest. Crypto-
asset service providers, including their affiliates, that combine multiple functions and 
activities must be subject to, or should be brought into compliance w ith, appropriate 
regulation, supervision and oversight, including, as appropriate, legal separation of 
certain functions. 
■ Cross-border cooperation : The borderless nature of crypto -assets underlines the 
importance of strong and consistent jurisdictional reg ulatory, supervisory and 
enforcement practices. Crypto-asset issuers and service providers may seek to evade 
regulation and oversight by migrating to places where regulation is lighter. This requires 
strong measures to address regulatory arbitrage. The FSB ’s high -level 
recommendations have been strengthened on information sharing, including about the 
level of compliance of activities spanning multiple jurisdictions, especially those in 
jurisdictions that have not implemented international standards.  
4. Next steps 
The FSB and the IMF will deliver a joint report  to the G20 in September  2023, which will 
synthesise the policy findings from IMF work on macroeconomic and monetary issues (as set 
out in its February 2023 note to the G20 on Macrofinancial Implications of Crypto Assets5) and 
FSB work on supervisory and regulatory issues published today. This will support a coordinated 
and comprehensive policy approach to crypto-assets by considering macroeconomic and 
regulatory perspectives, including the full range of risks posed by crypto-assets. 
As an important part of this approach, the FSB and the SSBs will continue to work on enhancing 
effectiveness and international  consistency of the regulation, supervision and oversight of 
crypto-asset and stablecoin activities. While the high-level recommendations apply to so-called 
decentralised finance and service providers that combine multiple functions, the FSB will also 
conduct follow-up policy work, as appropriate, on these areas to determine if additional guidance 
or recommendations are necessary. The FSB will also explore ways to address the cross-border 
 
5  IMF (2023), G20 Note on the Macrofinancial Implications of Crypto Assets, February. 

=== PAGE 11 ===
 
7 
risks GSCs pose to emerging market and developing economies and consi der ways to 
strengthen supervisory and regulatory coordination. 
The SSBs will, within their respective mandates continue to examine how existing standards 
apply to crypto -assets and stablecoin arrangements, and make revisions, as needed, to their 
sectoral international standards and guidance or, if necessary, provide additional guidance that 
supplements existing standards and principles in light of the FSB recommendations. Any 
additional granular guidance from SSBs will further articulate regulatory expecta tions at the 
global level, contributing to consistent outcomes under  their respective mandates while 
mitigating the risk of regulatory arbitrage. 
As many crypto -asset activities are still operating without being subject to comprehensive 
regulation, or being undertaken in non-compliance with applicable jurisdictional regulations, it is 
important that FSB members implement these high -level recommendations and relevant 
international standards fully and consistently. Jurisdictional authorities may apply and enf orce 
existing requirements and laws, as well as develop new  or additional regulatory approaches. 
The FSB will continue to facilitate discussions and information sharing amongst FSB members 
where such coordination supports an effective collective supervisory response to developments 
in crypto-asset markets. FSB will also regularly assess the need for further international policy 
work on crypto-asset activities, such as ways to support jurisdictional implementation.  
The FSB will, by end -2025, conduct a revie w of the status of the implementation of these two 
sets of recommendations at the jurisdictional level. Considering that many crypto-asset activities 
are taking place, licensed or registered in non-FSB member jurisdictions, the FSB will, alongside 
the SSBs and other international agencies, take steps to promote  and monitor the effective 
implementation in jurisdictions beyond the FSB’s membership, including engaging  with 
jurisdictions with material crypto-asset activities to reduce the scope for regulatory arbitrage. As 
part of this work, the FSB, together with the IMF, the Work Bank, and the SSBs, will  
■ engage with a wider set of jurisdictions to encourage implementation of the FSB 
recommendations and international standards,  
■ take stock of regulatory progress and challenges among non-FSB member jurisdictions 
through the FSB’s Regional Consultative Groups, and  
■ monitor and address cross -border issues related to stablecoins and other  crypto-
assets. 

=== PAGE 12 ===
 
 
8 
 
 
5. Annex: FSB-SSB shared workplan 
Initiative 
(Responsible Body) 
Objective/Scope Status/Timeline 
Risks and regulation of crypto-assets and markets 
Finalisation of FSB high-level 
recommendations for regulation, 
supervision and oversight of 
crypto-assets and markets 
(FSB) 
Recommendations to address financial stability risks of 
crypto-asset markets and activities, including issuers and 
service providers. They cover regulatory power, cross-
border cooperation, governance, risk management, data, 
disclosure, systemic risk and multi-function intermediaries. 
Publication of finalised high-level recommendations in 
July 2023 (G20), review of the status of implementation 
at a jurisdictional level by end-2025. 
Crypto-Assets and Digital Assets 
Recommendations 
(IOSCO) 
Apply IOSCO Principles and Standards to economically 
equivalent crypto-assets and activities to address the 
sizeable and proximate market integrity and investor 
protection risks in the sector, covering conflicts of interest, 
client asset protection, market manipulation, operational 
risk, retail access suitability, and cross-border issues, 
among others. 
Together with the IOSCO DeFi Recommendations and 
Guidance (see below), this will promote greater 
consistency with respect to how IOSCO members  
approach the regulation and oversight of crypto-asset 
activities, given the cross-border nature of the  
markets, the risks of regulatory arbitrage and the 
significant risk of harm to which retail investors  
continue to be exposed. 
IOSCO Fintech Task Force (FTF) issued a consultation 
on proposed CDA policy recommendations in May 
2023, focusing on crypto-asset service providers 
(CASPs). Following the consultation period, IOSCO will 
review feedback and finalise policy recommendations to 
address investor protection and market integrity risks in 
crypto-asset markets. The CDA policy 
recommendations will be finalised by end of -2023. 

=== PAGE 13 ===
 
9 
Initiative 
(Responsible Body) 
Objective/Scope Status/Timeline 
Financial stability risks of 
decentralised finance 
(FSB) 
To assess financial stability implications of DeFi (and 
associated trading, lending, and borrowing practices, 
services and platforms, protocols, and market participants) 
and draw policy implications that SRC could consider. 
Report published and submitted to G20FMCBG in 
February. 
Policy implications of DeFi 
(FSB) 
To consider regulatory implications of DeFi and assess 
whether additional policy work is warranted. 
Preliminary work underway and is expected to be 
completed by end-2024. 
DeFi Recommendations  
(IOSCO) 
Updates on the state of the DeFi market and provide 
recommendations on applying existing IOSCO principles to 
DeFi by mapping them against key aspects of DeFi 
activities and protocols, covering emerging issues, risks 
and considerations. 
The IOSCO FTF, through its DeFi workstream, will 
consult on proposed DeFi policy recommendations 
during Q3 2023. Following the consultation period, 
IOSCO will review feedback and finalise policy 
recommendations to address investor protection and 
market integrity risks in DeFi. The DeFi policy 
recommendations will be finalised by end-2023. 
Exploratory work on DeFi in the 
insurance sector 
(IAIS) 
To explore recent developments in the area of 
Decentralised Insurance, analyse supervisory challenges 
and identify areas of future work. 
Following initial analysis during 2021-2022, the IAIS 
Fintech Forum will continue analysis of developments 
related to decentralized insurance business models. 
Non-public note to be finalised in 2023. FSI-IAIS-EIOPA 
joint webinar in October 2023. 
Multifunction crypto-asset 
intermediaries 
(FSB) 
To assess financial stability implications of multifunction 
crypto-asset intermediaries, building on the lessons learnt 
from recent failures of such intermediaries, and draw policy 
implications that the FSB could consider. 
Work underway.  
Policy implications of multi-function 
crypto-asset intermediaries 
(FSB) 
Consider regulatory implications and assess whether 
additional policy work is warranted arising from 
multifunction crypto-asset intermediaries that may give rise 
to compounded risks, conflict of interests, and opaque 
transactions with related parties that may not typically be 
allowed in traditional financial companies 
Work to begin depending on the outcome of the FSB’s 
analytic work and will be completed by end- 2024.  

=== PAGE 14 ===
 
10 
Initiative 
(Responsible Body) 
Objective/Scope Status/Timeline 
Regular monitoring and 
assessment of vulnerabilities in 
crypto-asset markets 
(FSB) 
To keep track of crypto-asset market developments 
(including stablecoins and DeFi) and assess their financial 
stability implications and conduct on-the-spot analysis of 
major crypto-asset market events. 
Work underway. 
Risks and regulation of Stablecoins 
Finalisation of FSB high-level 
recommendations for global 
stablecoins (GSCs) 
(FSB) 
The FSB’s recommendations for GSCs seek to promote 
consistent and effective regulation, supervision and 
oversight of GSCs across jurisdictions to address the 
potential financial stability risks posed by GSCs. 
Publication of finalised high-level recommendations in 
July 2023 (G20), review of the status of implementation 
at a jurisdictional level by end-2025. 
Authorities’ responsibilities for 
stablecoin arrangements under the 
Principles for financial market 
infrastructure (PFMI) 
(CPMI-IOSCO) 
To analyse challenges for relevant regulatory, supervisory 
and oversight authorities in implementing their PFMI 
Responsibilities for stablecoin arrangements, especially on 
Responsibility E (cooperation with other authorities) and 
identify potential approaches to addressing these 
challenges. 
As appropriate, the key findings of the report will be 
shared with the wider international regulatory 
community 
Risks associated with multi-
currency and asset-linked 
stablecoins 
(CPMI-IOSCO) 
To identify issues for multicurrency or asset-linked 
stablecoins that may require additional clarifications or 
additions to the July 2022 CPMI-IOSCO guidance on the 
application of the PFMI to SAs, including notable features 
of such stablecoin arrangements that might affect their 
compliance with the PFMI. 
Publication on issues potentially requiring further 
clarifications related to multicurrency stablecoins used 
as a settlement asset is envisaged for H2 2023. The 
work on the asset-linked stablecoins is in the early 
stage 
Cross-border regulatory 
coordination for GSCs in emerging 
market and developing economies 
(EMDEs) 
(FSB) 
To explore how to address the unique cross-border 
financial stability risks posed by GSCs, including risks 
specific to EMDEs, and consider ways to enhance 
supervisory and regulatory coordination. 
Work to begin in late Q3 2023 and continue into 2024.  

=== PAGE 15 ===
 
11 
Initiative 
(Responsible Body) 
Objective/Scope Status/Timeline 
Banks’ stablecoin exposures and 
related activities  
(BCBS) 
See related BCBS activities in the section on Financial 
sector exposures to crypto-assets; in particular: criteria to 
identify stablecoins eligible for “Group 1b” prudential 
treatment, the composition of stablecoin reserve assets 
and banks as stablecoin issuers. 
Ongoing as part of the BCBS 2023-24 work 
programme. 
Regular monitoring of 
developments in stablecoins 
(CPMI secretariat) 
To monitor the key trends in the stablecoin market, e.g., 
market capitalisation, deviations from peg and composition 
of backing assets. 
Data being collected on an ongoing basis to support the 
work of the CPMI, BIS and the FSB. 
Potential of SAs for cross-border 
payments as part of Building block 
18 in the cross-border payments 
programme 
(CPMI) 
To help central banks and regulatory authorities to better 
understand how SAs, if properly designed and regulated, 
could contribute to the objective of making cross-border 
payments faster, cheaper, more transparent and more 
inclusive. To analyse potential benefits and challenges 
from cross-border use of SAs, as well as potential 
implications for central banks’ key functions. 
The report is envisaged for publication in September 
2023. 
Financial sector exposures to crypto-assets   
Banks’ exposures to crypto-assets 
(BCBS) 
Monitor the implementation of BCBS’s prudential treatment 
of banks' crypto-asset exposures. Review by end-2023 the 
treatment of permissionless blockchains with additional 
safeguards and the criteria to identify stablecoins eligible 
for the "Group 1b" prudential treatment, including the 
appropriate composition of reserve assets and the 
effectiveness of statistical tests. 
Ongoing as part of the BCBS 2023-24 work 
programme. 

=== PAGE 16 ===
 
12 
Initiative 
(Responsible Body) 
Objective/Scope Status/Timeline 
Assessment of bank-related 
developments and activities in 
crypto-asset markets 
(BCBS) 
To assess bank-related developments and activities in 
crypto-asset markets, - including the role of banks as 
stablecoin issuers, custodians of crypto-assets and 
broader potential channels of interconnections with the 
crypto-asset ecosystem – and develop proposals to 
address any risks that are not adequately captured. 
Ongoing as part of the BCBS 2023-24 work 
programme. 
Monitoring of insurer-related 
developments in crypto-asset 
markets 
(IAIS) 
To monitor the extent to which developments in crypto-
asset markets may impact the insurance sector. 
The IAIS Fintech Forum and IAIS Macroprudential 
Supervision Working Group undertook initial monitoring 
during 2022 – and concluded that the usage of and 
exposure to crypto-assets in the insurance sector is 
currently very limited. Further monitoring is planned for 
2023. 
Next Fintech Forum roundtable on crypto-assets is 
planned for H2 2023. 
Implications of distributed ledger 
technology (DLT) and DeFi for 
financial market infrastructures 
(FMIs) 
(CPMI-IOSCO) 
To identify emerging risks associated with the use of DLT 
by FMIs and interaction between FMIs and Defi. 
A workshop with industry and academics is envisaged 
for H2 2023. 
Other areas of related work 
Tokenisation  
(FSB) 
To take stock of recent developments, including ongoing or 
planned projects, regarding tokenisation of assets with the 
aim of identifying potential financial stability implications 
and exploring policy implications that warrant further 
consideration by the SCAV, SRC and other relevant 
bodies. 
Work is underway, expected completion in 2024. 

=== PAGE 17 ===
 
13 
Initiative 
(Responsible Body) 
Objective/Scope Status/Timeline 
Future of Payments - Tokenisation 
(CPMI) 
Analytical exploration of the characteristics of tokenisation 
of money and payments, and the benefits, risks and 
challenges to central banks of a tokenised financial 
ecosystem 
The work is at an early stage. Deliverables to be 
determined.  
Annual CBDC and crypto-asset 
survey 
(CPMI) 
To monitor the central banks’ involvement in CBDC work 
as well as their perceptions regarding usage of stablecoins 
and other crypto-assets in their jurisdictions. 
6th survey conducted with responses from over 80 
central banks.  
Published in July 2023.]  
 
 