

=== PAGE 1 ===
   
 
  
 
 Thematic Analysis: Emerging Risks in  
Private Finance 
 Final Report 
 
 
            The Board of the 
International Organization of Securities 
Commissions 
 
 
 
FR10/23 September 2023 
 
  


=== PAGE 2 ===
 ii
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copies of publications are available from: The International Organization of Securities 
Commissions website www.iosco.org   
© International Organization of Securities Commissions 2023. All rights reserved. Brief 
excerpts may be reproduced or translated provided the source is stated. 
  

=== PAGE 3 ===
 iii
 
   
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ............................................................................................... 1 
INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................. 3 
BOX 1: PRIVATE INVESTMENT FUND INDUSTRY IN CHINA ............................................... 7 
PRIVATE FINANCE IN A CHANGING MACRO-FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT ............................. 8 
CURRENT MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT AND ITS POTENTIAL IMPACT ............................... 12 
BOX 2: THE EMERGENCE OF PRIVATE CREDIT ............................................................... 13 
CHAPTER 1: AN OPAQUE MARKET ....................................................................... 19 
OPAQUE VALUATIONS .................................................................................................... 20 
VULNERABILITIES FROM VALUATION PRACTICES............................................................ 21 
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST ................................................................................................. 22 
VULNERABILITIES FROM CONFLICTS OF INTEREST .......................................................... 25 
CHAPTER 2: THE USE OF LEVERAGE IN PRIVATE FINANCE ....................... 26 
PORTFOLIO COMPANY LEVERAGE ................................................................................... 26 
LEVERAGE AT THE FUND LEVEL ...................................................................................... 28 
VULNERABILITIES FROM LEVERAGE ............................................................................... 29 
BOX 3: COLLATERALIZED FUND OBLIGATIONS .............................................................. 30 
CHAPTER 3: THREATS TO MARKET INTEGRITY ............................................. 31 
POTENTIAL ISSUES IN THE PRIVATE CREDIT MARKET ...................................................... 31 
PORTFOLIO REBALANCING .............................................................................................. 32 
SECONDARY MARKETS ................................................................................................... 35 
RETAIL INVESTORS ......................................................................................................... 36 
CHAPTER 4: POTENTIAL RISK TRANSMISSION TO PUBLIC MARKETS .... 39 
THE LINES BETWEEN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE MARKETS ARE BLURRING ............................. 39 
RISK TRANSMISSION CHANNELS .................................................................................... 40 
INCREASING CREDIT RISK IN A HIGH INTEREST ENVIRONMENT ..................................... 41 
CAPITAL COSTS AND AVAILABILITY .............................................................................. 42 
CONCLUSIONS .............................................................................................................. 44 
ABBREVIATIONS .......................................................................................................... 46 

=== PAGE 4 ===
 1
 
   
Executive Summary  
Global private finance is experiencing rapid growth, with annualized growth at nearly 18% 
since 2017 and private market assets under management (AUM) reaching $12.8  trillion 
USD in June 2022. 1 US companies have raised more money in private markets than in 
public markets in each year since 2009. 2 Certain types of funds, including private credit 
and private equity funds, have grown to an increasingly  significant share of overall 
financial markets and, in doing so, are taking on ever more important roles in financing the 
real economy.  
Private finance activities can be beneficial to the economy. Private credit industry 
practitioners state that they are financing key growth areas, particularly where banks are 
unwilling or unable to provide credit. 3 The geographic expansion of private equity and 
venture capital also provides key sources of developmental finance, for example through 
funding the expansion of established companies  and start -ups in the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations ( ASEAN) countries.4 More generally, academic literature 
describes the positive spillover effects of private equity and venture capital investments on 
firm-level productivity, employment and economic growth.5   
Yet with this increasing role come potential risks. IOSCO has undertaken this work to 
better understand the potential vulnerabilities that might arise from private financing 
activities, including the ways in which risks in this sphere could touch on public capital 
markets and IOSCO’s objectives,6 including potential harm to investors, risks to market 
integrity, or potentially giving rise to financial instability and systemic risk. The outcomes 
of this report are based on an extensive review of literature, market research, and benefits 
from roundtable discussions held with private finance market participants, academics, and 
credit rating agencies.7 
While the inherent opacity in private finance provides investors with some insulation from 
the transparency costs faced in public markets, it could also jeopardize availability of 
information that regulators and investors require to effectively assess risks.  This includes 
risks that could arise due to the way in which private finance firms conduct their activities 
(e.g., valuations, conflicts of interest), from their interconnections with the wider financial 
system, and from how macro-financial developments could impact the sector, the portfolio 
companies that receive finance, and the real economy.   
 
1   Bain (2023) Global Private Equity Report 2023 
2   See Morgan Stanley, Public to Private Equity in the United States: A Long-Term Look (Aug. 4, 
2020) 
3   Block et al (2023) A Survey of Private Debt Funds  
4   ASEAN (2022) ASEAN Investment Report 2022 
5   Samila and Sorenson, 2011; Davis et al., 2011; Bernstein et al., 2017 
6   IOSCO Objectives and Principles 
7   The external engagement is referred to as “market” or “roundtable” participants, or “external 
stakeholders” throughout the report. 

=== PAGE 5 ===
 2
 
   
The investment landscape has changed dramatically with the return of inflation and the 
rapid shift to interest rate normalisation. This creates prospective challenges to funding 
models within private finance sectors that have relied on continuing access to cheap and 
secure sources of debt funding. Potential questions therefore arise in terms of these sectors’ 
ability to navigate this transition to the “new normal”. 
If interest rates stay at (or near) current levels (or increase further) for longer than expected, 
it is likely that there will be a reduction in the availability of funding to support private 
finance activities. Portfolio companies are likely to face higher rates on existing borrowing, 
which is typically floating rate, as well as on new and refinanced borrowing.  Market 
participants noted that these risks were especially stark over the medium to long- term.  
Although private finance firms have accumulated a significant amount of “dry powder” 
(i.e., capital committed by investors , but not yet invested) , the extent to which this could 
mitigate this risk is unclear.  F lexibility of financing in private credit  arrangements may 
also help portfolio companies navigate short -term market strains, but defaults are 
nonetheless expected to increase over the medium to long- term.  Overall, there could be 
significant impacts on concentrated sectors that have become reliant on a constant flow of 
affordable funding.  
There are also conflicts of interest in private finance, for example, between a fund 
manager’s investors in different investment products, such as when one of the manager’s 
debt funds lends to portfolio companies in one of its equity funds. There are also conflicts 
of interest in some aspects of valuations, transaction negotiation practices and general 
partner (GP) led secondary markets. 8 However, it is difficult to assess the scale of these 
risks, the frequency in which these issues arise and the extent to which they are managed 
effectively. 
Should the relative increase in the cost of debt lead to a renewed interest in equity financing, 
such valuation concerns could be unearthed under a scenario where portfolio companies 
and their sponsors would need to face the prospect of raising capital thr ough the public 
equity markets (e.g., through IPOs or perhaps SPACs).  
More broadly, t he connections between private markets and other parts of the financial 
system may also provide avenues for the transmission of risk into public markets . There 
has been a significant increase in market-based credit intermediation, at the same time as a 
contraction in loans and bonds held by banks in advanced economies. 9 External 
stakeholders have emphasized the interchangeability of public and private markets. Some 
roundtable participants remarked that the size and growth of private markets meant that 
private finance  was now a critical component to the functioning of the real economy, 
especially for specific sectors, such as technology and healthcare.  
 
8   A private equity secondary market (or “secondaries” as it is known) allows investors to sell their 
private equity fund positions. A transaction in this “over-the-counter” market encompasses the 
transfer of a limited partnership interest from the selling Limited Partner  to the new owner, who 
assumes all rights and obligations of the Seller (see Chartered Alternative Investment Association 
- https://caia.org/sites/default/files/AIAR_Q3_2016_01_Secondaries.pdf)  
9   OECD (2020) Structural developments in global finance intermediation – the rise of debt and non-
bank credit intermediaries 

=== PAGE 6 ===
 3
 
   
The lack of available data covering all aspects of private finance activities makes mapping 
risk transmission challenging, however, the market participants in both public and private 
markets overlap, bridging banking and non- bank sectors. On one side, investment banks 
play an intricate role in nearly all phases of a leveraged buy -out and/or private credit 
transaction, primarily through the provision of leverage. On the investor side, large 
institutional investors such as pension funds and insurance companies are dominant players 
in both private finance investments and in public debt markets. 
Private market participants also appear keen to push toward new sources of capital, such 
as through retail investors. Such a shift would inherently come at the cost of the investment 
products being subject to greater  regulation and higher standards of governance and 
oversight than those required when involving institutional investors. Nonetheless, retail 
investors could be more exposed to risks given the lower transparency  of the investments 
compared to those in public markets.  Retail investors would also have relatively poorer 
access to information and resources. M any of the liquidity risks associated with private 
finance activities are traditionally mitigated by the closed -end nature of the investments, 
yet retail investors may ultimately demand greater access to liquidity. 
Private finance has largely grown in a period of accommodative macro- financial 
conditions. This has now changed. The sector may be tested in the medium to long term 
and could respond in ways that uncover hidden risks . It is evident that private and public 
markets are intertwined to the degree that any one market event could have implications 
across both markets and, potentially, the broader financial system.   
Introduction 
The term “private finance” is broad, and definitions can vary across jurisdictions. However, 
it generally encompasses activities relating to capital raising and lending provided by non-
bank investors to companies through bilateral transactions.  
Private finance is mainly arranged through private investment funds, including private 
equity and private credit funds, although direct investment is possible by large institutions. 
These funds, in turn, raise capital from investors such as pension funds, insurers and 
endowments, as well as high net worth individuals and family offices. Investors are usually 
required to commit significant capital (the standard minimum investment in private equity, 
for example, sits at about $25 million  USD) for a significant time period (5 -10 years). In 
certain jurisdictions, certain private finance funds may also raise capital from “retail 
investors” (i.e., individual and non- professional investors, who typically invest in funds 
with no or low -income threshold) and correspondingly require a much lower minimum 
investment. Furthermore, some private finance funds may be perpetual in life (i.e., 
“permanent capital”) and do not have a specified investment time period.  
This report focusses on private equity and private credit. Private equity includes strategies 
such as venture capital or leveraged buyouts . Private equity investments are achieved by 
acquiring an ownership stake in a company through purchasing equit y securities that are 
subsequently not listed or actively traded on a market or exchange. Private credit is used to 
describe the provision of credit to (typically small- and mid-sized) businesses by non-bank 

=== PAGE 7 ===
 4
 
   
lenders on a bilaterally negotiated basis .10 In other words, the credit is originated without 
bank intermediation, and can take various forms, including loans, bonds, notes or private 
securitizations.11 Examples of strategies include direct lending, distressed debt, mezzanine 
financing, venture debt and structured financing. The term “ private credit” is often used 
interchangeably with terms such as “private debt”, “direct lending”, “alternative lending” 
or “non-bank lending”.  
Table 1 describes some key characteristics that distinguish private equity and private credit 
from other forms of finance. Private equity and credit  can be closely interconnected, and 
their activities can overlap  and/or relate with activities of public securities markets or 
banks. For instance, banks may engage in lending activities with  private equity and credit 
funds, and private credit funds  may invest directly in leveraged loans  without bank 
intermediation, providing an alternative to the broadly syndicated lending market.  
General characteristics of private finance funds 
Private equity and credit investments are generally illiquid and held to maturity in a closed-
end fund structure (Figure 2). These funds are typically structured in the form of a limited 
partnership or equivalent vehicle. Generally, a private equity fund’s contractual initial term 
is 10 years (which may be extended), with t he first 4-6 years corresponding to the fund’s 
investment period. A private credit fund’s contractual term is typically 5 -8 years with 
approximately the first 3 -4 years constituting the fund’s investment period (Table 1) . 
During the investment period, the fund manager sources investments for the fund and draws 
down capital committed by investors (“dry powder”) to fund such investments. Following 
the investment period, the manager can generally no longer draw down unused committed 
capital other than for certain approved items, such as  fees, expenses, and follow -on 
investments. During this period, the manager focuses on “harvesting” or realizing exit 
events for the fund’s investments and distributing proceeds to investors. 
 
10   See, for example, the definition provided by AIMA 
11   See, for example, AIMA 

=== PAGE 8 ===
 5
 
   
Figure 1: Typical fund structure 
  
Source: IOSCO (2023) 
Liquidity transformation is limited in private markets (Figure 2). Capital and profits are not 
generally distributed to investors until investments are realized ( e.g., underlying 
investments are sold or liquidated, for example through going public  or exit on secondary 
markets). The fund manager, and not the fund investors, controls the timing of investment 
drawdowns and distributions , although certain investors may negotiate “side letter” 
provisions affecting some of their rights in this regard (see “Conflicts of Interest”, below).12  
Importantly, private finance funds generally do not offer redemption rights to investors 
(other than in the case of certain limited types of funds). Prior to fund liquidation, there is 
generally no way for an investor to dispose of their fund interests other than through a 
secondary market transaction.  
Activity is focused in North America, Europe, and growing in Asia 
The scale and scope of private financing activities varies considerably by jurisdiction. The 
US market accounts for over 54% of the private market AUM.13 However, there are also 
 
12   For instance, an investor may negotiate an opt-out or “excuse” right from obligations to fund 
particular investments. This could be for regulatory or investment policy reasons.  
13   McKinsey (2023) Private Markets Annual Review, Exhibit 2  
Private Fund
Management
CompanyInvestors
Investment InvestmentInvestmentFees
Management
Investment
Investment Investment
Figure 2: Liquidity scale 
 
Source: IOSCO (2023) 
Less liquid More liquid
Venture 
Capital
Buyout
Growth Credit
Other Alternative 
Investments
Hedge Funds Cash
Public Stocks/Bonds

=== PAGE 9 ===
 6
 
   
sizeable investment footprints across  the European and Asian markets (20% and 22% 
respectively) (Figure 3).  
In 2022, only 48 of the largest 300 private equity firms and none of the largest 20 (by 
fundraising volume) were based in  the Asia Pacific region .14 While relatively small, the 
Asian private credit market has grown by almost 30 times over the past two decades, from 
USD $3.2 billion in 2000, to over USD $90 billion in June 2022.15  
In particular, the Chinese private investment funds sector has grown significantly in recent 
years and has become an important part of the Chinese financial system, particularly as 
providers of direct financing for technological innovation, supporting corporate equity 
financing, and by introducing more institutional investors into the market. 
By the end of April 2023, there were 22,300 private investment fund managers, with assets 
under management (AUM) of nearly RMB 21 trillion yuan (approximately $2.9 trillion 
USD). Among them, the AUM of private securities investment funds, which mainly invest 
in secondary markets , stood at nearly RMB 6 trillion yuan (approximately $800 billion 
USD), the AUM of private equity investment funds reached RMB 11 trillion yuan 
(approximately $1.5 trillion USD), and the AUM of venture capital funds rose to RMB 3 
trillion yuan (approximately $400 billion USD). 16  
By the end of 2022, there were nearly 400 private investment fund managers in China 
whose AUM were above RMB 10 billion yuan (approximately $1.4 billion USD) . There 
were 38 foreign private securities fund managers, with a total AUM of RMB 67.3 billion 
yuan (approximately $9 billion USD). Their parent companies covered major global capital 
markets such as North America, Asia, Europe and Africa.17 
Private finance activities are not generally well established in emerging economies. For 
example, in Africa, private finance investments are still a tiny fraction of those elsewhere 
in the world.18  
On the other hand, activity in South America experienced substantial growth following the 
Global Financial Crisis (GFC), and between 2008 and 2013, major international private 
equity firms including TPG, KKR and Ajax Partners opened offices in Latin America .19 
However, a steep recession during the COVID -19 pandemic and an environment of 
political uncertainty saw investors increasingly divest from the region20 such that by 2021, 
each of these offices had closed. In addition, central bank interest rate hikes in Brazil were 
earlier and more rapid than in other regions, possibly owing to the country’s history of 
 
14   Private Equity International (2022) PEI 300 | The Largest Private Equity Firms in the World  
15   MAS (2023) Private Credit - The Next Key Driver of Growth in Private Markets  
16    Asset Management Association of China (AMAC),Monthly Report on Private Investment Fund 
Managers Registration and Private Investment Fund  Filing  (April 2023) 
17   Asset Management Association of China (AMAC),Overview of Private Investment Fund 
Registration and Filing in 2022 
18    S&P (2023) African private equity activity surges to 5-year high in 2022  
19   IMF (2023) IMF Data Mapper; The Lauder Institute (2022) Private-Equity-in-Latin-America-
GBIR2022.pdf (upenn.edu) 
20   Covid’s Shockwaves Took Poverty in Latin America to a New Nadir - Bloomberg 

=== PAGE 10 ===
 7
 
   
hyperinflation. Private equity activity in the region picked up somewhat in 2020, but there 
remains an environment of considerable uncertainty.21  
 
Box 1: Private Investment Fund Industry in China 
In response to market growth, relevant rules have been issued  in China such as 
Securities Investment Fund Law 22 and Interim Measures for the Supervision and 
Administration of Privately Offered Investment Funds. A bundle of self -discipline 
rules carried out by Asset Management Association of China (AMCC) have also been 
implemented in areas such as fund raising, internal control and information disclosure.  
In January 2021, Provisions on Strengthening the Supervision of Private Investment 
Funds were released, further clarifying the bottom -line requirements of registration 
and investment operation. More recently, o n July 7th, 2023, China published the 
Regulations on Supervision and Administration of Private Investment Funds, which 
will come into effect on September 1, 2023. This is the country's first administrative 
regulation in the sector.23 
The new regulation aims to strengthen risk control from its source, clarify bottom line 
requirements of regulation, and promote the standardized operation of private 
investment funds. 
 
 
 
21   Intralinks (2022) Private Investment in Latin America 
22   See Securities Investment Fund Law of the People’s Republic of China 
23   See China unveils regulation on private investment funds 
Figure 3. Private market assets under management, H1 2022. (USD billion) 
 
Source: McKinsey (2023) Private Markets Annual Review, Exhibit 2  
388
494
640
829
854
1068
2016
57
109
394
362
368
201
849
71
525
118
91
177
1201
344
19
91
122
52
62
109
80
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000
Other
Growth
Infrastructure &
natural resources
Private debt
Real estate
Venture capital
Buyout
North America Europe Asia Rest of world

=== PAGE 11 ===
 8
 
   
Private finance in a changing macro-financial environment 
Globally, private financing activities exhibited unprecedented growth in the period 
following the GFC. Global AUM for private funds nearly doubled in the four years to 2022 
and trebled over the decade leading to 2022 to reach $12.8 trillion  USD in H2 2022. 24 
Although total fundraising fell more than 10%  in 2022, down to $1.4 trillion USD, it was 
still the second highest year on record, and nearly three times higher than fundraising 
volumes seen a decade earlier.25 
Figure 4. Assets Under Management Breakdown (USD billion) 
 
Source: Preqin (2023) 
 
 
 
 
24   Bain (2023) Global Private Equity Report 2023 
25   Preqin Ltd (2023) Charts and league tables, accessed May 2023 
0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000
10,000
12,000
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
Private Equity Real Estate Infrastructure Private Debt Natural Resources

=== PAGE 12 ===
   
 
  
 
Table 1: Private equity and private credit versus other forms of finance  
 Private equity and private credit  Public equity, public debt, and 
securitizations 
Private finance when intermediated 
by banks  
Type of 
instruments  
Unlisted equities; loans; bonds; notes; may also 
include private securitizations. 
Listed equities; corporate and 
government bonds; public 
securitization issues  
Includes, for example, broadly 
syndicated loans (BSL s, also known 
as leveraged loans) and private 
securitization issues, including CLOs 
Public prospectus  No, with exceptions – e.g., funds investing in 
private credit could have a public prospectus 
Yes No, with exceptions  - e.g., funds 
investing in private credit could have 
a public prospectus 
Typical investors  Mainly arranged by private investment funds , 
which typically source capital from non- bank 
investors. However, capital  can also be provided 
directly. Mainly wholesale investors, although 
retail investors can invest in some markets.  
Banks and non -bank investors - 
Wholesale and retail.  
Banks and non -bank investors – 
Generally wholesale 
Distribution/ 
intermediation  
Narrowly distributed  (bilateral, direct) – not 
intermediated by banks. Private funds typically 
arrange the finance, although direct investment by 
large institutions is possible.   
Broadly distributed - Typically 
bank-intermediated.  
Moderately distributed - Typically 
bank-intermediated.  
Typical borrower  Private credit – SMEs or mid -market companies, 
although they have started to target larger, more 
established companies as well.   
Private equity – SMEs, mid-market companies and 
large businesses  
Large businesses  
  
BSL - Non-investment grade 
businesses on the higher end of mid-
market and larger corporates. Varies 
for private securitization  
Cost of capital 
and yield  
Typically, higher - e.g., private credit typically 
offers a premium over syndicated loan yields and 
public debt  
Typically lower  Varies - BSL yields are typically 
higher than for public debt, but lower 
than for private debt. 

=== PAGE 13 ===
 10    
Time horizons  Longer – investors usually commit capital for a 
number of years .   (5-10, typically, for private 
equity, and 5- 8 years or perpetual for private 
credit) 
Shorter  Varies   
Active secondary 
market?  
No –investments are  typically non -tradeable 
Secondary market opportunities are  generally 
limited. Lower liquidity.  
Yes - Instruments are tradeable, 
and liquidity is generally higher. 
Varies - Secondary markets are active 
for some segments , e.g. BSL and 
CLOs. Less liquid than public finance 
markets.  
Valuations and 
price discovery  
Infrequently updated - lagged repricing  Frequent - e.g., mark-to-market  Varies - e.g., relatively frequent for 
BSLs  
Use of ratings  Not rated  Rated/usually rated  Varies – BSLs and CLOs are usually 
rated  
Transparency  
(reporting and 
disclosure) 
Low to none 
 
High  Varies 
  
  
Typical 
borrowing terms  
More flexible, customized terms  Standardized Standardized  
Execution time 
for deals  
Shorter  Longer  Variable 

=== PAGE 14 ===
   
 
  
 
This unprecedented growth has led to private finance activities contributing a greater share 
of firm financing  (Figure 5) and financial markets more broadly. The combined global 
AUM of p rivate equity and private credit funds has grown by a factor of 15 since 2000, 
significantly outpacing the growth in the market capitalization of global public stock 
markets, which have roughly trebled over the same period.26 However, in terms of volumes, 
private markets are significantly smaller than the public equity and debt markets (Figure 5). 
Academic and market literature cites two main factors underpinning the growth of private 
finance. Firstly, the period from the GFC up until  2022 was characterized by 
accommodative monetary policy, including prolonged low interest rates and quantitative 
easing. This fostered a search for yield environment, in which investors were willing to 
invest for longer terms and assume greater credit and illiquidity risk in exchange for higher 
potential returns.27 
Private credit benefitted from this search for yield as investors were attracted by higher 
returns compared to other  fixed income assets (see Box 2, “the emergence of private 
credit”).28 Rate floors also provided floating-rate investors with protection against falling 
rates. Monetary easing also led to credit growth, which supported private finance activities 
more broadly, given the positive relationship between the availability of credit, and buyout 
and merger and acquisition activity.29  
 
26   Based on comparing private assets under management (AUM in private equity and private credit) 
and public market capitalisation (data from World Bank, WFE). 
27   See, for example, BIS (2021) The rise of private markets, BIS Quarterly Review, December 2021 , 
Moody’s (Private credit opportunity for lenders comes with opaque, systemic risks. May 2022) 
and CEPR.  
28   BIS (2021) The rise of private markets, BIS Quarterly Review, December 2021  
29   CEPR 
Figure 5. Comparing Growth in Global Markets 2000-2022 
  
Sources: Preqin, World Bank, BIS. Notes: Data on private assets under management came from 
Preqin. Data on market capitalization of listed companies is only provided to 2020. Public debt 
series were constructed from BIS data on amounts outstanding of public debt to non- financial 
corporates issued in all markets in countries where data was available. 


=== PAGE 15 ===
 12
 
   
Secondly, the regulation of private finance funds is generally considered relatively light, 
for example,  relative to  banks.30,31 Recalibration of business models and regulatory 
changes,32 particularly since the GFC, have led banks to withdraw from certain types of 
lending. This has created an opportunity for private funds to step into many of these 
markets, particularly in lending to middle-market businesses. 
The tax advantages that private finance firms can offer through their structure are also 
likely to have contributed to growth.  For example, fund managers receive much of their 
income in the form of carried interest, which is taxed at capital gains rates in certain 
jurisdictions, rather than income tax rates which tend to be higher. 
It is also notable that private finance markets navigated the COVID -19 crisis without 
experiencing significant losses . However, it is difficult to know the full extent of the 
COVID-19 market impact due to limited transparency in the private finance market as well 
as the extraordinary government support measures that were enacted to support market 
segments vulnerable to the pandemic . These measures also helped enable private finance 
activities to bounce back in the period that followed.33 
Current macroeconomic context and its potential impact 
Global macroeconomic conditions have changed significantly in recent years as a result of 
the COVID- 19 pandemic and geopolitical tensions, most notably Russia’s invasion of 
Ukraine.  Interest rates and inflation have risen, while prospects for economic growth have 
declined. These conditions, which continue to persist, have placed private (and public) 
markets under increasing pressure.34 More restrictive monetary policy is also beginning to 
impact the credit availability that underpinned the recent surge in private finance activities. 
Reports point to additional challenges posed by geopolitical and market uncertainties, 
dislocation in capital markets, debt market closures, and reduced investor sentiment.35  
 
 
30   BIS (2021) The rise of private markets, BIS Quarterly Review, December 2021  
31   There are some exceptions to this, such as, for example, US registered funds are subject to 
comprehensive regulatory requirements under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and other 
rules and regulations. 
32   The literature refers, for example, US leveraged lending guidelines and Basel III. See, for 
example, PGIM, Fitch and Moody’s (Private credit opportunity for lenders comes with opaque, 
systemic risks. 4 May 2022)  
33   See, for example, the IMF Global Financial Stability Report, which note that leveraged buyout 
activity boomed following policies aimed at reopening capital markets and supporting the flow of 
credit to households and firms.  
34   For example, more than half of respondents to a survey of fund managers by AIMA, identified 
inflation and macroeconomic risk as the biggest challenge for their portfolios and future lending 
activity. A survey of 100 private equity firms by Dechert produced similar findings. AIMA (2022) 
Dechert (2022) 
35   See, for example, Deloitte, EIF, and PwC  

=== PAGE 16 ===
 13
 
   
Box 2: The Emergence of Private Credit  
Over the past decade, middle-market companies, which are typically too small to access 
public markets for financing, have increasingly turned to private credit funds for 
funding. The global private credit market grew from less than USD $60 billion in 2002 
to over USD $1.3 trillion in H1 2022 (figure 4) – the approximate size of the bank 
leveraged loan market in the US. This growth is expected to continue, with Preqin 
forecasting global private credit AUM to reach USD $2.3 trillion by 2027.36 In recent 
years, private credit funds have also started to target larger, more established companies 
(see Table 2, below) .37 This change in dynamics has been driven by several factors, 
including: 
• Increased competition in the middle-market space: As more private credit funds have 
entered the market, competition for deals has increased, leading some funds to look 
for opportunities in larger deal sizes. Growth in the amount of capital available to 
private credit funds has also enabled them to pursue larger deals. 
• Tailored financing solutions: Private credit funds generally have the flexibility to 
tailor financing arrangements to the needs of larger companies. For example, some 
private credit funds offer unitranche financing, which combines both senior and 
subordinated debt into a single instrument, allowing companies to acce ss a larger 
amount of capital without having to deal with multiple lenders. In addition, private 
lenders may offer greater certainty of execution and speed of closing compared to 
public markets. 
• A close relationship between direct lenders and borrowers: These funds typically 
hold the loans till maturity thus, if borrowers get into financial distress, they may 
find it relatively easier to work with direct lenders who may often have expertise in 
restructuring matters, e.g., to refinance their debt or reorganize the company. 38 A 
recent academic study finds that, in the U.K., private equity sponsored companies 
outperformed non- private equity sponsored companies during the COVID -19 
pandemic, as their sponsors provided various managerial and operational expertise 
as well as access to capital.39  
Overall, market participants generally predict that the trend towards larger deals in the 
private credit market is likely to continue.  
 
  
 
36   Preqin (2023) Global Report 2023 – Private Debt 
37   AIMA ((2022) Financing the Economy  
38   S&P (2021) Private Debt: A Lesser-Known Corner Of Finance Finds The Spotlight 
39   Lavery and Wilson (2022) The Performance of Private Equity Portfolio Companies During the 
COVID-19 Pandemic 

=== PAGE 17 ===
 14
 
   
 
Table 2: Scale and complexity of Private Debt 
 Syndicated Debt  Private Debt 
Number of Lenders  Dozens  1-6  
Deal Size USD  200 million – 5 billion 20 million - 2 billion.  
Middle market (> 50 million EBITDA) 
and lower market  
Interest Charged   Higher than syndicated 
Covenants  Mostly (>91%) Cov-lite  Most deals have a covenant but no more 
than one 
Borrowers Rating  BB to B+ Mostly unrated  
Secondary Market 
Liquidity  
Possible unless stressed 
market conditions 
Less liquid. Lenders hold debt to maturity 
Leveraged lending 
guidelines  
Typically, up to 6x 
EBITDA  
Subject to negotiation, may be higher 
than leveraged lending guidelines 
Speed to execution  Two months or more  30-75 days  
Source: S&P Financial Services. 
Challenges for portfolio companies  
Changes in the macroeconomic environment directly impact portfolio companies  held by 
private funds. For instance, many companies face increased operating costs due to inflation. 
Furthermore, these portfolio companies  tend to be more highly leveraged than issuers in 
other markets,40 and may face increased debt servicing costs at the same time as worsening 
economic prospects may negatively impact their revenues. Conditions could also tighten 
for new financings and refinancing, both in terms of cost and availability.41 
In a rising rate environment, investors may see private credit funds as a n attractive option 
since private credit loans are typically provided at a floating rate42 and with a higher coupon 
compared to broadly syndicated debt . However, in this same environment  portfolio 
companies will pay more for their own floating -rate debt,43 and firms’ hedging of this 
borrowing may be limited.44 
Private credit portfolios are also disproportionately comprised of smaller, less established 
companies, although in recent years funds have targeted larger companies as well (Box 2). 
Small firms may be less resilient to higher inflation and interest rates, and more impacted 
 
40   See, for example, Haque (S) Does Private Equity Over-Lever Portfolio Companies, or  Block et al 
(2023) A Survey of Private Debt Funds 
41   For example, Reuters report that the cost of a $1 billion loan from a private equity firm for a non-
investment grade company now averages an interest rate of up to 12%, versus 7.5% in 2021.  
42   Preqin (2023) Global Report 2023 – Private Debt 
43   See, for example, AIMA and Fitch 
44   See, for example, Fitch Ratings  

=== PAGE 18 ===
 15
 
   
by the decline in fiscal support as economies  have emerged from the pandemic. 45 There 
are some signs of small firm bankruptcies starting to increase,46 as well as of portfolio write 
downs, although roundtable participants noted t hat this would also be true for public 
markets.47  
These factors could lead to higher risks of default, which may also be observed through the 
restructuring of deals rather than corporate insolvencies. Roundtable participants noted that 
this risk would increase significantly if the environment of higher interest rates persists 
beyond 2024. According to some industry observers, there is a growing imbalance between 
the protection provided to investors by floating rate loans and the impact of higher rates on 
borrowers’ ability to repay them. 48 Still, private credit lenders may have expertise in 
restructuring loans in troubled times, thus helping their portfolio companies avoid defaults 
and bankruptcies. 
A lack of transparency in this sector makes it difficult for investors and regulators to assess 
such risks. Private finance investments are generally valued by the managers themselves  
(and are  typically validated by independent valuation agents and audited by external 
parties), at regular intervals (typically quarterly), based on internal models, and adjust more 
slowly than in public markets. Furthermore, flexibility in loan terms, and the ability to 
restructure deals, may delay the impact of rising borrowing costs and postpone or prevent 
insolvencies.  
This could be positive, as it would allow more time for firms to respond to macroeconomic 
changes, yet it could also prolong issues and exacerbate their impact (see  also, “Stale 
valuations”). 
Challenges for fund managers 
Growth in private equity markets slowed in 2022, compared to the prior year , and is 
expected to slow further in 2023.49 For example, private equity fundraising fell by 13% last 
year, and is predicted to fall by 2.7% this year .50  Private credit fundraising also fell, by 
8%. Furthermore, in the same period , new private equity and credit fund launches fell by 
33% (21%). Private equity deal volumes were also lower with global buyout value and deal 
counts, for example, falling by 22% and 17% respectively. Private credit deal volumes fell 
substantially (39%) but aggregate deal value only decreased by 18%, due to an increase in 
the average deal size.51 
Historically high returns 
 
45   IMF, Moody’s (Growing leveraged finance liquidity risks are harbinger for private credit. 16 May 
2022) 
46   See, for example, IMF 
47   See, for example, EIF/Invest Europe and Bain (2023) Global Private Equity Report 2023.   
48   AIMA (2022) Financing the Economy 
49   Preqin Ltd (2023) Global Report 2023 –Private Equity and Preqin Ltd (2023) Charts and league 
tables, accessed May 2023, see also Bain, Global Private Equity Report 2023 
50   Preqin Ltd (2023) Global Report 2023 –Private Equity and Preqin Ltd (2023) Charts and league 
tables, accessed May 2023 
51   Preqin Ltd (2023) Charts and league tables, accessed May 2023 

=== PAGE 19 ===
 16
 
   
Private markets have historically achieved greater returns, on average. According to recent 
Pitchbook data, aggregated public benchmark performance generated cumulative 18.8% 
return between Q1 2020 and September 2022, compared with an 84.0% Net Asset Value 
(NAV) increase in private equity over the same period. Likewise, one recent study by the 
asset manager Cliffwater found that over the 22-year period ending June 30, 2022, net-of-
fee returns of state pensions’ private equity allocations were 11.4% on an annualized basis, 
compared with the 5.8% annualized return for public stocks.52 Investors may be expecting 
similar returns in the future, with managers finding it more difficult to match or exceed 
them in times of worsening economic conditions. 
Figure 6. Private credit deals 2000-2022 
 
Source: Preqin Ltd (2023) Charts and league tables (accessed May 2023)  
Lower allocations to private finance, and more selectivity by investors 
In the same way as lower interest rates drove a search -for-yield environment in the years 
leading up to 2022, higher interest rates would be expected to impact investor risk appetite 
and could reduce the relative attractiveness of private finance markets.  Constraints on the 
availability of capital will likely be a key challenge, and some industry stakeholders have 
indicated that portfolio companies of both private equity and private credit funds may face 
refinancing risk, especially if the high-rate environment persists beyond 2024 (see “lending 
standards and loan terms”, below).53  
There is also some evidence of fund investors becoming more selective in their allocation 
to private finance strategies.54 Indeed, Preqin data for the first three quarters of 2022 shows 
a substantial decline in the number of funds that closed (137 up to Q3 2022, versus 273 for 
 
52  See Cliffwater report, February 28, 2023 
53   See, for example Pitchbook (2023)  
54   See, for example, Bain (2023) Global Private Equity Report 2023 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
1800
2000
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023 YTD
Deal Value (USD bn)
Number of deals
Aggregate Deal Value (USD bn) Number of deals

=== PAGE 20 ===
 17
 
   
all 2021), with larger commitments going to fewer managers, and the top 10 funds 
accounting for a larger proportion of aggregate capital raised (50% versus 36% in 2021).55 
Increased selectivity may also manifest itself in other ways. For example, bargaining power 
may shift from private finance firms to investors in terms of fees and the sharing of rents.56 
Investors may also seek more transparency of fees and performance, or more control over 
the direction of portfolio companies. 57 Finally, there may be industry consolidation, 
potentially affecting competition.  
Changing strategies 
The exit environment is increasingly challenging. The aggregate value of global exits 
decreased by 32% in 2022 compared with 2021 (figure 7), and the value of private equity-
backed IPOs decreased by more than 68%, following steep declines in public markets .58 
This may lengthen investment  holding periods, particularly if IPO market illiquidity 
persists.59 New exit routes may be used, with predictions, for example, of increased deal 
flow in the secondaries market .60, 61 Funds may also look to raise finance in other ways, 
such as through NAV financing62 and offering their products to retail investors.63 Finally, 
there may be more focus on adding value to portfolio companies through operational and 
strategic improvements, rather than generating returns through rising valuations or high 
leverage.64  
Procyclicality  
Views differ on whether private markets are procyclical or magnify the fluctuations in an 
economic cycle. Some market participants  contend that private credit tends to remain 
“open” and support s resilience through providing diversification in sources of funding,  
while traditional sources of finance tend to retrench during times of stress. Some i ndustry 
 
55   2023 Preqin Global Private Debt Report 2023 
56   See, for example, CEPR and CEPR2 
57   See, for example, Dechert’s 2022 Global Private Equity Outlook, where 47% of respondents 
indicated that LPs are expressing a desire for greater control over the direction of portfolio 
companies.  
58   S&P (2023) Private equity exits plummet in 2022 | S&P Global Market Intelligence 
(spglobal.com) 
59   See, for example, Bain (2023) Global Private Equity Report 2023 and EIF’s Venture Capital 
Survey 2022. 
60   Secondary funds, commonly referred to as secondaries or continuation transactions, purchase 
existing interests or assets from primary private fund investors. For example, a primary private 
equity fund may purchase a stake in a private company, and then sel l that interest to a secondary 
buyer. 
61   For example, Preqin’s November investor survey revealed that over half (52%) of respondents 
view use of private secondaries as presenting the best opportunities over the next 12 months.  
62   See, for example, Deloitte and Bloomberg  
63   For example, Dechert’s 2023 Global Private Equity Outlook reports that 37% of surveyed senior 
PE executives believe that retail access to PE vehicles will expand.  
64   See, for example, The Economist and Bain (2023) Global Private Equity Report 2023 

=== PAGE 21 ===
 18
 
   
commentators also point to the long horizons of private market investors, which can mean 
that borrowers are less impacted by short-term market volatility.65 
On the other hand, the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) concludes that private 
markets “appear every bit as procyclical as public markets”, with BIS quantitative research 
finding that capital deployment in private equity and private credit is positively correlated 
with stock market returns.66 This relationship is similar to the procyclicality of leveraged 
loans and equity capital raising  and could be linked to the lower risk premia that 
accompanies periods of high stock returns. T he leverage involved in private equity may 
also contribute to procyclicality, with fund managers able to support more debt when their 
net asset value rises.  
Private markets’ performance during past downturns.  
There is some research to  suggest that private equity investors who did not retreat and 
continued allocating capital during times of stress fared well during market turbulence in 
the last two decades. Indeed, private equity generated some of its best performance results 
during the dot-com crash of 2001 and the 2008- 2009 GFC.67 These results coincide with 
others showing that during the dot-com crash and GFC, private equity recorded less severe 
hits on the investment multiple compared to public equity indices.68 
Figure 7. Private equity-backed exits by type, 2020- 2022 
Aggregate exit value (USD Billion) 
 
Source: S&P (2023); Data compiled Jan. 4, 2023. *Includes bankruptcy or write -off, 
private placement or follow on, sale to management, and unspecified exits.  
In addition, there is some evidence to show that private equity-backed companies operating 
during the GFC increased capital expenditure compared with peers without this backing. 
 
65   For example, Moody’s (Growing leveraged finance liquidity risks are harbinger for private credit. 
May 2022). 
66   BIS (2021) The rise of private markets, BIS Quarterly Review, December 2021  
67   Pitch book (2023) Q2 2020 Private Market Playbook  
68   Bernstein, Lerner and Mezzanotti, (2017) Private Equity and Financial Fragility during the Crisis 
4.9
10.2 12.7 21.3 13.7 21.1 11.7 7.3
3.3
4.4
2.6 2.9
5.7
11.4 12.7
16.6 24.8 19.7
16.7 13.4 13.1 6.4
3.5 0.7
19.9
0.7 25.9
16.5 25.5
36.6
26.7 45.1
20.4
13.9 9.1 8.6
20.3
5.0
43.0
64.5 51.8
68.9
62.1
131.6
84.4 104.0
52.2 61.9
Q1 2020 Q2 2020 Q3 2020 Q4 2020 Q1 2021 Q2 2021 Q3 2021 Q4 2021 Q1 2022 Q2 2022 Q3 2022 Q4 2022
Other exits*
IPO
Secondary Sale
Trade Sale

=== PAGE 22 ===
 19
 
   
As a result, those companies were able to increase market share and experience higher asset 
growth during the crisis. A  Stanford University and The Kellogg School of Management 
study indicated that the positive investment effects of private equity were particularly large 
in companies which would have been otherwise more likely to be financially constrained 
at the time of the crisis. The study, which included analysis of almost 500 private equity-
backed companies in the UK during the GFC, found that these firms recovered faster from 
the crisis and captured more market share relative to comparable non-private equity-backed 
competitors. 
These studies suggest that  private equity backed companies are more resilient to market 
falls. Private equity fund managers are also not compelled to sell illiquid assets to satisfy 
redemption requests from exiting investors. Yet limited partners may have pressure to re-
balance their portfolios by reducing exposures in alternative assets. Therefore, an abrupt 
correction in public markets may slow the inflow of funds to private markets , impairing 
the capital available for small and medium-sized companies.  
Chapter 1: An Opaque Market 
Private funds have considerably fewer reporting obligations to the public than, for example, 
publicly listed or registered funds. 69,70However, many jurisdictions collect detailed  
recurrent data at the fund and portfolio levels, including on private finance activities, even 
if that data is only reported to regulators. Still, certain parts of the private finance markets, 
such as  information on portfolio companies, may remain opaque. Furthermore, unlike 
investments in the portfolios of public counterparts, private finance investments  are 
generally not rated by credit rating agencies, and valuations are generally periodic though 
infrequent (e.g., quarterly).  
Transparency is not costless. T he costs associated with  public market reporting and 
disclosures, along with other compliance issues, are cited as one of the drivers of growth 
in private finance activities. In contrast, while compliance costs in private markets are 
considerably lower, investors are more reliant on specialist intermediaries such as private 
equity and private credit firms to conduct more bespoke  and costly due diligence on their 
behalf.71  On one hand, while this opacity provides investors with some insulation from the 
transparency costs faced in public markets, it also jeopardizes availability of information  
for investors and regulators to use in effectively assess ing risks. This includes risks that 
could arise due to the way in which private finance firms conduct their activities (for 
example valuations, conflicts of interest), from their interconnections with the wider 
financial system, and from how macro- financial developments could impact the sector, 
portfolio companies, and the real economy (see Chapter 4 on risk transmission to public 
markets).   
 
69   See for example, Table 1 
70    It should be noted that the US SEC recently adopted new rules and rule amendments to 
enhance the regulation of private fund advisers  (see https://www.sec.gov/news/press-
release/2023-155)  
71   Phalippou, L. (2020) An Inconvenient Fact: Private Equity Returns & The Billionaire Factory  

=== PAGE 23 ===
 20
 
   
Opaque Valuations 
Fund valuations have the potential to be a key contributor to risks in private finance 
activities. In recent years, valuation gaps between public and private assets have arisen .72 
There may be several explanations for this gap:  
• Private assets may have a higher value than public assets due to some characteristic 
that is correlated with the private finance business model.  
• Private valuations are inevitably stale. For example, w here listed equities can be  
valued by investors many times a minute, private funds may value their assets as 
infrequently as quarterly, or even annually, and do not have active secondary 
markets. This may lead to a gap where there is a large change in valuations in public 
markets in the period between valuations.  
• While private fund managers often follow third- party guidelines around valuation 
principles, there is a greater level of uncertainty regarding valuations – see below. 
Stale valuations 
Valuation of private market assets, which tend to be periodically , though infrequently, 
repriced, moves at a different pace compared to the typical daily price movements in public 
investments. Though the pace may be indicative of the general “buy to hold” nature of 
private finance investments, the difference in valuation timing can result in a staleness in 
valuations. There is usually a 2 or 3 quarter lag between a decline in  public market  
valuations and the impact becoming fully evident in private markets. For example, during 
the GFC in 2008, while the S&P 500 declined 30% between the first and third quarter, new 
private capital continued to be invested during this period. Similarly, as the listed stock 
market valuations began to recover in the third quarter of 2009, private capital invested 
remained depressed for two more quarters.73  
Staleness of valuations has dual effects. Over the past decade, buyout funds have exited 
assets at valuations exceeding their last quarterly mark nearly 70% of the time.74 The Bain 
report in which this figure was published cites this as evidence that private equity firms 
may undervalue their assets. However,  this may also be a function of timing, since when 
markets are rising on average, valuations that are stale tend to be low. 
By contrast, when public markets are down materially, as in 2022, this could raise questions 
about private capital overvaluations. 75 In extreme cases, this could lead investors to seek 
to exit the fund before it is revalued downwards (a “ first mover advantage”), although in 
practice this risk is mitigated by the fact that private funds are, typically, closed -end and 
do not allow redemptions by investors during the fund’s lifespan.  
 
72   Pitchbook (2023) Q1 2023 PitchBook Analyst Note: How Macro Risks Are Shaping the Outlook 
for US Private Markets | PitchBook 
73   How the Current Public Equity Downturn Could Work Its Way Through Private Markets Lessons 
From the 2000 Dotcom Debacle and the 2008 Global Financial Crisis. Dushyan Shahrawat, 
Udayveer Singh Chawla, Vikas Shah 
74   Bain (2023) Global Private Equity Report 2023 
75   Institutional Investor and SP Global  

=== PAGE 24 ===
 21
 
   
Valuation methodology 
In preparing financial statements, private fund managers are generally required to follow 
accounting principles found in the US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) 
or International Financial Reporting Standards ( IFRSs) (collectively, “applicable 
accounting standards”) in valuing fund investments. Determining which to apply (i.e., US 
GAAP or IFRS) depends on a variety of factors, including the user of the financial 
statements. 
For investments that lack an observable market, the applicable accounting standards do not 
require any single valuation technique to be applied. Instead, they discuss several broad  
valuation approaches and specify principles that must be followed when measuring fund 
investments at fair value in accordance with these standards.76  However, the fair value of 
investments that lack an observable market generally have a greater level of uncertainty 
than those that have an observable market.  For example, analysts have reported that, in the 
US, the sheer size of the valuation gap between public and private assets has primarily been 
caused “by extreme markups in private valuations that have little chance of ever being fully 
realized.”77  
Vulnerabilities from valuation practices 
Valuations of private finance investments are subjective because of their illiquid nature and 
lack of secondary market, with many managers designating such investments as “buy and 
hold.” Managers may be incentivized to maintain their (higher) valuations on private 
finance inves tments despite falling prices in public markets or use improper valuation 
methodologies to achieve such a goal. 
Stale or inaccurate valuations could negatively impact market integrity and, in some cases, 
may cause or exacerbate investor losses. By definition, stale valuations may impede price 
discovery and can lead to inefficient capital allocation.  This could have direct implications 
for institutional investors that  are obliged to maintain certain allocations to private and 
public markets. In particular, i nflated valuation s would result in investors becoming 
overexposed to private finance activities.  
Uncertainty around valuation accuracy could also become a trigger for a broader loss of 
confidence. Risks arising from valuation uncertainty can be exacerbated by a general lack 
of transparency since, in the absence of objective and readily available data, there is an 
increased likelihood that new information c ould come as a shock to some market 
participants. A negative valuation shock could lead to discounted sales on secondary 
markets or, where available, attempted withdrawals from the fund, particularly where 
investors believe that the real value of assets may be lower than the book value. 
Valuation concerns and associated conflicts of interest (see Conflict of interest, below) 
could also be unearthed under a scenario where portfolio companies and their sponsors 
 
76   For example, when applying a given valuation technique, the applicable accounting standards 
require entities to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable 
inputs. For US GAAP, see 820-10-35-24 (ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement). For IFRS, 
see IFRS 13 para 67 (IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement). 
77   Preqin (2023) Q1 2023 PitchBook Analyst Note: How Macro Risks Are Shaping the Outlook for 
US Private Markets  

=== PAGE 25 ===
 22
 
   
return more prominently to raising capital through the public equity markets (e.g., through 
IPOs or SPACs).  
Conflicts of interest 
Conflicts of interest often arise in relation to private finance activities , and investors and 
other interested parties may not be fully informed about the ways and extent to which these 
conflicts are managed. Conflicts  may arise at several points throughout the lifecycle of a 
private equity or private credit fund, and at different levels of the fund structure. They can 
occur at the fund level (e.g., pressure to deploy capital), between different types of investors 
(e.g., private equity and private credit funds investing in the same portfolio company, or 
between buyers and sellers in continuation vehicles) , and for individuals in the firm. The 
following summary describes select ed conflicts of interest faced by private finance 
managers.  
Fees and Fee Structure  
Typically, fund managers charge an annual management fee of 1% to 2% of committed 
capital (though in some funds the fee is charged on invested capital), which is used to cover 
the fund's operating expenses. 78,79 This fee is charged regardless of performance and can 
represent a significant source of revenue for the firm. Managers may have less incentive to 
generate strong returns if they  can earn a substantial fee simply by maintaining  the fund. 
However, in such cases the manager may be less incentivized to rely solely on management 
fees for their economic compensation, as they would be foregoing a lucrative performance 
fee (described below). 
Another potential conflict arises from the carried interest or performance fee that private 
finance managers receive when the fund generates certain returns . Typically, managers 
receive a percentage of the fund's profits above a certain threshold, such as an 8% hurdle 
rate. This fee is intended to align the manager’s interests with those of the investors, as the 
manager only receives a fee if the fund generates strong returns. However, investors could 
be concerned that the manager has an incentive to take excessive risks or pursue short-term 
gains in order to generate a performance fee, rather than focusing on long- term value 
creation80(though such risks are somewhat mitigated by “ clawback” provisions). Further 
to this, performance is often measured using internal rate of return ( IRR), which some 
research shows may be subject to manipulation, such as through use of subscription credit 
facilities. In one survey, 30% of private equity executives said that the greatest advantage 
of subscription credit facilities or net asset value financing was that it boosted IRR by 
allowing funds to call capital at later dates.81 
 
78   Private credit management fees are traditionally 1%. Block et al (2023) A Survey of Private Debt 
Funds 
79   The “2 & 20” structure or 2% management fee and 20% performance fee is common in private 
equity. See, for example, Fried (2017) Only One Type of Private-Equity Fund of Funds Earns Its 
Fees 
80  The-Alignment-of-Interests-between-the-General-and-the-Limited-Partner-in-a-Private-Equity-
Fund__Full-Article-1.pdf (harvard.edu)  
81    Dechert (2023) 2023 Global Private Equity Outlook  

=== PAGE 26 ===
 23
 
   
The mix of management fees, performance fees, hurdle rates and clawback provisions are 
intended to balance the economic incentives a manager may have in managing their fund, 
although their effectiveness can be debated. 
There can also be conflicts of interest related to transaction fees and expenses, as managers, 
particularly in private equity, may receive fees from portfolio companies for services such 
as financing or consulting. The manager could prioritize its own interests over those of the 
fund and its investors when negotiating these fees and/or providing such services. 
Competing funds and investments 
Many private credit funds are sponsored by private equity firms 82 and invest in private 
equity sponsored deals.83 Conflicts are likely to arise when the private credit fund of a firm 
finances a portfolio company of the same firm’s private equity fund, or where the portfolio 
company is otherwise related to the firm. This conflict may become more acute in times of 
stress, where the equity and debt holders have competing interests while seeking to protect 
their investments. Some industry stakeholders have indicated that conflict of the equity 
investors’ interests with the debt investors’ interests would be  avoided, and generally 
covered by internal policies that stipulate that fund-sponsoring firms should not favor one 
set of investors over another. In some cases, regulations place restrictions on transactions 
(e.g., in the U.S., the Investment Company Act of 1940 places restrictions on affiliated 
transactions involving registered funds). 
Some industry stakeholders highlighted that the se practices may occur with some funds 
when investing in middle -market companies (partly driven by investors’ demands) or in 
companies that are in distress. In the latter case, conflicts of interests are more relevant if 
both equity and debt holders contest the assets.  Moreover, a firm that is both a private debt 
and private equity investor may, for example, use its voting rights ( e.g., in a default 
situation) as a debt holder to support its  equity position, to the detriment of other debt 
investors (though fiduciary obligations may mitigate this risk) . Nonetheless, it is difficult 
to identify where these investments occur and how often related conflicts materialize.  
Preferential treatment of some investors  
Private funds, including private equity and private credit funds, may negotiate individual 
terms with select investors such as fees, preferential redemption rights, portfolio reporting, 
and excuse rights from funding certain types of investments, among others. These are often 
granted through side letters, which may not be visible to other investors.  
Some jurisdictions are proposing to mandate disclosing such preferential treatments to 
prospective and existing investors. Private funds may prefer to avoid making such 
bilaterally negotiated terms known to other investors as they could in turn demand similar 
rights.  
 
82   In a recent survey by Block of 38 U.S. and 153 European private credit firms found that 25% of 
the U.S. and 40% of the European respondents are affiliated with a private equity firm. Block et al 
(2023) A Survey of Private Debt Funds 
83   Block survey also found that 78% of U.S. and 42% of European private credit funds invest 
significantly greater fraction of capital in PE-sponsored deals. Block et al (2023) A Survey of 
Private Debt Funds 

=== PAGE 27 ===
 24
 
   
Continuation funds 
Conflicts can also arise between the interests of existing and new investors in continuation 
funds, due to ambiguity about valuations. In a continuation fund, the private equity fund 
will raise new capital from investors to purchase the remaining portfolio  companies from 
the original fund. The valuation of the portfolio companies is an important step in the 
process of creating a continuation fund, as it is used to determine the amount of capital that 
will be needed to purchase the remaining investments from the original fund.  
This process can result in conflicts of interests, as the private equity  firm and investors in 
the original fund may have differing opinions on the value of the remaining investments, 
and there may be disagreements about the price at which the investments should be sold to 
the continuation fund.  
There could also be a misalignment of interests between the private equity firm and the 
fund's investors in the creation of a continuation fund. There is no standard methodology 
for valuing private equity investments ( see “Valuation”, above), which can lead to 
inconsistencies in the reported valuations of different firms. While price discovery is a  
concern in continuation funds, there are certain ways in which these conflicts may be 
mitigated, including through use of a third party such as a valuation agent or an unaffiliated 
investor, or via auction. As noted above  (“changing strategies”), the current challenging 
exit environment may contribute to increasing use of continuation funds.   
Investment opportunities 
Dry powder refers to the amount that has been committed to the fund by the investors but 
has not yet been called. As the fund manager identifies investment opportunities, it issues 
a capital call to investors, after which investors have a short period (e.g., two weeks) to 
transfer funds to the manager.  
Dry powder can provide liquidity to the market and be a stabilizing factor,84 but it can also 
incentivize managers to deploy capital inefficiently if under pressure to invest. This 
pressure could increase private debt financing of riskier deals.  Similarly, pressure to 
deploy capital could result in private equity funds overpaying for firms.85  
The availability of dry powder could also have an impact on loan terms. On one hand, the 
potential speed and certainty of access to financing could lead borrowers to accept stricter 
covenants86 but, on the other hand, pressure to deploy could lead to looser covenants in 
private credit deals (see below).87  
 
84  Bloomberg and  Financial Times  
85   Relatedly, banks financing private equity buyouts in the broadly syndicated loan market could 
struggle to offload the debt and bonds financing the buyouts due to changing market conditions; 
see, for instance, Financial Times  
86   Guilford and Unmack (2022) Private credit’s main threat is itself, Reuters, July 8 2022 
87   Brooke (2019) Lack of, or looser, covenants could prove costly for funds and their investors 
Reuters  

=== PAGE 28 ===
 25
 
   
Vulnerabilities from conflicts of interest 
Conflicts of interest could incentivize market participants to make decisions that erode trust 
in the market  or lead to an inefficient allocation of capital . Such conflicts can also 
exacerbate other potential risks in private markets. 
For example, in many jurisdictions, regulators have limited visibility into  portfolio 
company leverage. In the absence of conflicts of interest, this may not be of great concern, 
since private equity fund managers should, in theory, choose a level of leverage that 
balances the benefits of leverage against the cost of credit and the increased default risk , 
resulting in an optimal outcome for fund managers and investors. Any departures from this 
balance would be incidental. By contrast, where conflicts of interest incentiv ize fund 
managers to choose risky levels of leverage, the lack of transparency c ould become a 
significant concern for investors and for the market. Investors, for their part, could choose 
a portfolio that is riskier than intended. Industry stakeholders suggest that firms typically 
have mechanisms in place to manage conflicts, but this may not always be the case, or such 
mechanisms may not be sufficient and/or tested.   

=== PAGE 29 ===
 26
 
   
Chapter 2: The use of leverage in private finance 
Leverage is an inherent part of private financing activity. Both private equity and private 
credit rely on the use of leverage, primarily at the level of the portfolio company, but also 
in particular at that of the fund (Figure 8). LBOs, in particular (and as the name suggests), 
induce significant debt exposures.88  
Figure 8: Private equity and credit financing and leverage sources 
 
Source: IOSCO 
Portfolio company leverage 
Target companies are generally prompted by private equity fund managers to go into more 
debt.89 In particular, portfolio company leverage is typically significant ly greater after a 
leveraged buyout and  continues to be greater even five years after the event  (figure 9, 
below).90 There are a range of views as to why this is the case.  
One explanation, according to sponsors and academics, is that the optimal level of debt 
increases after a buyout, since private equity management aligns the incentives of portfolio 
company managers and of their shareholders. This is said to lead to more efficient firm 
organisation, and limits costs and raises firm value (not only shareholder value).91   
 
88   Arguably, venture capital is fundamentally less prone to leverage its returns, also due to the cost of 
related debt. This point remains to be assessed on a more factual basis. 
89  Axelson, U., P. Strömberg, M. Weisbach (2009) Why Are Buyouts Levered? The Financial 
Structure of Private Equity Funds,   
90   Haque, S (2022) Does Private Equity Over-Lever Portfolio Companies? 
91   Guo S., E. Hotchkiss, W. Song, 2009 
(iv) Portfolio company leverage (e.g., debt incurrence)
Fund
Management Company
Fund-Owned 
Borrowing Vehicle 
(SPV/ HoldCo)
Leverage Provider 
(e.g., banks, 
syndicates, debt 
funds)
Operating Company 
(OpCo)
Leverage
(ii) Fund leverage (e.g., subscription facility)
Financial/tax structure setup by the fund
Acquisition of fund shares 
(with different rights)
Fund Ownership
Investors
(iii) SPV/Holding Company leverage (e.g., asset-backed facility)
(i) Management Company 
and/or investor leverage of 
investment in Fund
Legend:
Co-investment
Investment via equity (PE), credit (PC) or combination of both

=== PAGE 30 ===
 27
 
   
In addition, some stakeholders and academics have reported greater incentives for flexible 
solutions in the event that  firms need to restructure. 92 More generally, it is assumed that 
the risk from higher leverage is matched by a rise in efficiency and returns – in other words 
the argument is based on a risk-return trade-off.93 
However, some academics have argued that buyout leverage is not primarily determined 
by firm-specific factors, but rather the market -wide condition of the credit markets at the 
time of the buyout.94 This implies that any risk-return trade-off is also not firm-specific and 
may therefore be higher than optimal for some firms.  Other academics have noted that the 
risk-return trade-off may not fully incorporate the wider  cost of firm failure, especially in 
cases of private equity ownership, since fund managers capture much of the gains 
associated with leverage, but do not bear the full costs of bankruptcy.95  
Figure 9: Leverage Ratio in Companies before and after PE Investment 
 
Notes: This chart plots Leverage Ratio (Net Debt/Asset) of a large sample of portfolio 
companies each year since PE-takeover. Source: Bureau Van Djik and Haque, S (2022) Does 
Private Equity Over-Lever Portfolio Companies?  
It is difficult to establish the relationship between  portfolio company leverage and fund 
performance using empirical analysis, and commonly used metrics have been criticised as 
overly simplistic .96 Generalizations are particularly problematic since leverage has 
multiple uses. For example, leverage is often used for external growth (M&A) deals, where 
private equity ownership is commonly thought to add value in handling. 97 By contrast, 
 
92   Jensen M., 1989 Eclipse of the Public Corporation 
93  Jensen M., 1989 Eclipse of the Public Corporation 
94   Axelson, Borrow Cheap, Buy High? The Determinants of Leverage and Pricing in Buyouts  
95   See, for example, Magnussen S. The Public Cost of Private Equity (tamu.edu)  
96   See, for example, KPMG; 2016 Evaluating private equity’s performance (kpmg.com) on the limits 
of the value bridge framework’s capacity to assess the contribution of leverage to firm value 
creation. 
97   See, for example, Kaplan and Stromberg Leveraged Buyouts and Private Equity - American 
Economic Association (aeaweb.org) 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
-5 -4 -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4 5
Years Relative to Deal Year
Interquartile
range
Q 50

=== PAGE 31 ===
 28
 
   
portfolio company debt often finances dividend recapitalization, whereby portfolio 
companies take on additional debt in order to pay special dividends to private equity fund 
shareholders. In such cases the benefits of the leverage to the portfolio firm are less clear.98  
Regulators have limited visibility of portfolio fund leverage 
There is only limited administrative data on the extent of portfolio company leverage. 
Banks may have visibility over portfolio company leverage, but supervisory evidence on 
portfolio company leverage varies by jurisdiction. For example, in the US, SEC reporting 
(Form PF) requires large private equity fund advisors to report on a range of indicators on 
the indebtedness of their controlled portfolio companies’ (CPCs).99 In Europe, by contrast, 
the Alternative Investments Fund Managers Directive (AIFMD) framework specifically 
excludes reporting on leverage at the level of a portfolio company.100 
Available evidence suggests that there has been a meaningful rise in leverage ratios, 
especially for leveraged buyouts (Figure 10, below ). S&P Global Ratings reports that the 
median corporate debt ratio rose continuously between 2003 to 2021. Ratios increased in 
the US from 4 to 6 times, and in the EU the increase was from 4 to 7 times debt to equity.101 
Leverage at the fund level 
While some f und-level leverage is relatively common, leverage ratios are generally 
relatively low  and exposures at the fund level are subject to US, the UK and the EU 
reporting rules.    
However, fund-level leverage is generally not borne directly by the fund but by a holding 
company or special purpose vehicle ( SPV) (figure 8, above), via which the fund invests 
into portfolio companies. Such vehicles are often set up to take advantage of offshore tax 
benefits.102  
For private equity funds, in principle, the debt of such vehicles is secured by portfolio 
company asset collateral so that net fund debt does not exceed the value of their assets , 
since investors are not liable to fund debts in excess of their investment amount. In Europe, 
this characteristic enables the debt to be excluded from  European reporting requirements 
under AIFMD rules.103 Such debt is also exempt from reporting requirements in the U.S. 
As a result, it remains challenging for regulators and most market participants to assess the 
risks associated with fund-level leverage. 
 
98   The New York Times Private Equity Firms Are Piling On Debt to Pay Dividends; Dividend 
recaps, (…) long condemned for loading up companies with debt (…), has surged. 19 Feb. 2021.  
99   Form PF requires disclosure of a fund’s CPCs’ weighted average debt-to-equity ratio, highest and 
lowest debt-to-equity ratio of any CPC and the type and amount of CPC borrowings (e.g., current 
or long-term), among other disclosure requirements.  
100   AIFMD Recital 78 
101   S&P Global Ratings 
102   Vehicles incorporated in offshore jurisdictions (e.g., Cayman or Virgin Islands) are typically not 
subject to any direct income tax on their income, nor any withholding or similar income tax on 
distributions to their investors. However, this does not normally apply to taxes on their investment 
activities in other (e.g., onshore) jurisdictions. 
103   AIFMD Delegated regulation  231/2013, Art. 6 3 

=== PAGE 32 ===
 29
 
   
Other sources of leverage have also been increasingly relied upon by private equity funds. 
This includes newer forms of borrowing, such as NAV financing and c ollateralised fund 
obligations (CFOs) (See Box 3).  Innovation in areas such as these may lead to new risks 
arising in respect of borrowing/leverage, including where transparency is lacking. More 
typically, a rising reliance on subscription bridge financing and credit lines (SCLs) 104 has 
been noted (see conflicts of interest, above). SCLs consist of short -term debt (e.g., up to 
three years) and are generally used as a cash flow management tool, typically to smooth 
and make LP capital calls more predictable. The scope of the use of such credit sources has 
however been questioned, particularly due to the ability for fund managers to use  them to 
enhance fund performance (i.e., IRR) metrics.105  
SCLs may affect fund performance. Private equity firms commonly use the internal rate of 
return (IRR) as a measure of performance which can be increased by bringing forward the 
timing of distributions or delaying capital calls, thus shortening the investor’s holding 
period for the applicable investment.106 This can affect manager decision-making and can 
be a source of conflict of interests, since fees are often paid based on performance and 
strong “on paper” performance may support fundraising. On balance, however, BlackRock 
has found the impact on IRR to be modest, and SCLs are more useful in simplifying fund 
operations than boosting performance.107 
Fund level leverage is also relatively common in credit funds.108 A 2021 survey of investors 
for 119 European and 38 US firms, with AUM dedicated to private debt of at least €180 
billion and $136 billion respectively, found that 95% of US funds and 33% of European 
funds used some leverage.109  
Vulnerabilities from leverage 
Leverage is an inherent characteristic of private markets, and although unlikely to be 
concentrated in any one entity, multiple layers of leverage could pose risks. For instance, 
portfolio companies of private equity funds are highly levered, on average. Similarly, credit 
funds may lend to borrowers that incur higher levels of leverage than a bank would 
generally finance. In the current inflationary environment, highly levered portfolio 
companies would expect to see increased costs and may also see decreased output in the 
event of a broader downturn.  
In addition, several leverage sources may impact cumulatively along financing chains. For 
example, deleveraging of a portfolio company could impact on the ability of its holding 
fund to refinance its own debt (if it was leveraged), and, further, on GPs and fund managers 
 
104   See e.g. BlackRock, Understanding the impact of subscription lines on private equity funds. 
105   Braun R., J. Cornel, P. Schillinger (2019) stress their distorting effects, namely their “potential to 
increase time-sensitive return measures substantially” and thereby to alter also fund rankings. 
106   See, for example, Internal rate of return: A cautionary tale | McKinsey and How do private equity 
funds measure performance? - Financial Advisers - Schroders 
107   See e.g. BlackRock, Understanding the impact of subscription lines on private equity funds. 
108   AIMA (2022) Financing the Economy 
109   Block et al (2023) A Survey of Private Debt Funds 

=== PAGE 33 ===
 30
 
   
that would have gone into debt to finance their own investments in the fund. Accordingly, 
leverage sources should be considered from a network/system-wide perspective. 
 
Box 3: Collateralized Fund Obligations110 
Collateralised Fund Obligations (CFOs) are a re- emerging securitization strategy that 
allows private equity funds to free up cash flows and access a wider investor base by 
creating an alternative channel for secondary sales. They can be composed of a variety 
of private assets and allow a fund t o re-allocate or re-balance its holdings. CFOs offer 
more favorable pricing and the ability to tranche a senior, mezzanine, and equity piece, 
which allows the sponsor to bring in a wider swath of interested investors with different 
investment goals. 
CFOs provide a way for institutional investors to gain exposure to private financial assets 
in a structured and capital-efficient rated format. For insurers and pension funds, CFOs 
can lower the carrying costs or tax implications by converting equity positions to debt 
holdings. In a PE fund securitization: 
• The transaction sponsor transfers LP interests in private equity funds into a 
special purpose vehicle (SPV) 
• The SPV then issues tranches of debt and equity that are sold to various investors, 
typically including a portion retained by the sponsor.  
• Proceeds of the sale are used to pay the sponsor for the initial transfer of LP 
interests.  
• Cash distributions from the underlying funds over time are used to pay for capital 
calls from the funds, the expenses of the SPV, interest and principal of the notes, 
with the remainder going to the equity. 
 
CFOs may build upon existing leverage at the fund and portfolio company levels, where 
funds may be borrowing against investor’s commitments, and lenders’ claims on fund 
assets could interrupt cash flows to bondholders. Due to their opaque structure and low  
transparency on their asset base, CFOs may amplify risks of private finance to a wider 
asset base.    
CFOs are likely to be an area of continued innovation and variety— with structures as 
variegated as the assets underlying the transactions — and demand driven by 
sophisticated, regulated investors. These features, while generally designed to manage 
risk, may come at the cost of transparency. 
 
  
 
110   Dechert (2022) Collateralized Fund Obligations (CFOs): The Technicolor Dreamcoat of Fund 
Finance; Wiggins (2022) “Collateralised fund obligations: how private equity securitised itself”, 
Financial Times (25 November 2022); and, Fitch Ratings (2019) PE CFOs: Securitizing Private 
Equity Fund Interests,. 

=== PAGE 34 ===
 31
 
   
Chapter 3: Threats to Market Integrity  
Potential issues in the private credit market  
For firms that face liquidity needs and are otherwise unable to access the public capital 
markets, private credit has a reputation as “ bear market capital” available during periods 
of market stress, albeit at a price. 
More generally, industry practitioners state that private credit provides financing in key 
growth areas, particularly where or to whom banks are unwilling or unable to provide 
credit.111  Increasingly, larger private credit fund sizes and new loan structures are enabling 
lending that was not feasible in the past (see Box 2). 112 In these ways, private credit is 
growing and in many ways filling a gap left as banks tighten credit. 
Lending standards and loan terms 
Roundtable participants argued that deal multiples – which increased significantly during 
the period of expansionary monetary policy and are beginning to decrease – reflected value 
for money, and therefore could be an appropriate proxy for lending standards in debt -
financed deal (figure 10). 
The vast majority of leveraged loans issued in recent years are classified as covenant -lite, 
meaning that they contain fewer restrictions on the borrower and fewer protections for the 
lender. The share of covenant -lite loans in the institutional loan market reached 91% in 
October 2021. For loans backing leveraged buyouts, this figure was even greater (figure 
11). 
In private credit, unlike in the broadly syndicated loan market, covenants are still written 
into most loan agreements, although the number of covenants declined in the low-rate years 
leading up to the beginning of 2022, to include an average just over one in many deals since 
 
111   Block et al (2023) A Survey of Private Debt Funds  
112    Private Debt: A Lesser-Known Corner Of Finance Finds The Spotlight: SP Global  
Figure 10: Average EBITDA purchase price multiple for leveraged buyout transactions 
 
Source: Bain (2023) Global Private Equity Report 2023 
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
2000 2005 2010 2015 2020
US
EU
11.9x 
10.7x 

=== PAGE 35 ===
 32
 
   
2015.113 Private credit funds primarily utilize cash flow-based covenants as they are largely 
cash flow-based lenders.114  
 
Possible vulnerabilities in debt servicing   
Rising inflation and the rising interest rate environment since early 2022 could impact 
private credit loans as they are typically based on variable rates such that borrower 
servicing costs rise as interest rate rise. A private credit default index compiled by 
Proskauer shows an upward trend throughout 2022. 116 As interest rates adjust upward, 
floating rate loans provide protection for the lenders but potentially make it difficult for 
borrowers to meet their obligations. According to Proskauer, the private credit default rate 
ended 2022 at 2.06% -  the second straight month of increases. Companies with EBITDA 
less than $25 million had a 2.7% default rate, up from 1.5% in Q3 2022. While these are 
notable increases, default rates remained well below the peak of 8.1% in that index, reached 
in Q2 2020. Further, one of the perceived benefits of private  credit is the ability and 
willingness of lenders to work with stressed borrowers in debt restructuring, such that 
defaults would be avoided. 
Portfolio rebalancing 
Institutional investors have continued to increase their allocations to private assets. In the 
past five years to 2022, the global average private equity allocation across different types 
of investors increased from 8.4% in 2017 to 11.2% in 2022 (see Figure 12). This trend has 
been most evident among insurance companies, which have doubled their average 
investments in private equity. The search for yield by these investors during the low -rate 
 
113  Block et al (2023) A Survey of Private Debt Funds 
114   Block et al (2023) A Survey of Private Debt Funds 
115   S&P Global (2021) Covenant-lite deals exceed 90% of leveraged loan issuance, setting new high 
116   Proskauer (2023) Proskauer’s Q4 2022 Private Credit Default Index Reveals Default Rate of 
2.06%, Increasing 0.5% over Previous Period - Insights - Proskauer Rose LLP 
Figure 11. Covenant-lite new-issue volume and share: LBOs 
 
Data to October 4, 2021 
Source: LCD, an offering of S&P Global Market Intelligence115 
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Volume Share (RHS)

=== PAGE 36 ===
 33
 
   
period was a central  factor in the growth of private finance and remains a key source of 
capital.    
The most active investors in global private credit are pension funds.117 On average, private 
and public pension plans’ allocation to private credit is about 5.5% and 4.9%, respectively.  
As these large capital providers re -evaluate their strategies in the changing economic 
environment, the potential unwinding of positions or reduced re -investment in private 
assets may present key risks over the coming years. The risk- return profile of leveraged 
assets that became appealing for these investors under the low -rate environment has 
changed, with portfolio companies subject to increased cost pressures due to inflation and 
rising interest rates.  
 
 
117   Preqin (2023) Global Report – Private Debt 
Figure 12: Average private equity exposure by institution type (in USD million), 2017 – 
2022  
 
Source: Private Equity International Investor Report FY-2022 
 -
 500
 1,000
 1,500
 2,000
 2,500
 3,000
 3,500
 4,000
 4,500
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Allocation to private equity ($m)
Private pension fund Public pension fund Insurance company
Foundation/endowment All institutions

=== PAGE 37 ===
 34
 
   
When rebalancing is required, time and cost are key variables. Fund limited partners  may 
choose to: 
• Remain over-allocated, adjust targets or wait for market corrections. 
• Offload their private assets from semi-liquid funds or potentially engage in sales in 
secondary markets.  
• Halt new purchases and/or re-investments.  
Sentiment among institutional investors towards private assets is moderating, though this 
may be transitory as markets adjust. The fixed income assets these funds traditionally held 
against their liabilities are presently providing higher yields than previously and , in some 
cases, inflation-protection, and may be seen as safer  and more liquid options to private 
assets. A December 2022 survey found that 24% of these investors believed their funds to 
be over-allocated to private equity, a significant increase from 2017 when only 4% felt that 
way. Despite this, investing intentions remain strong with 79% of respondents planning to 
sustain or increase investment over the next year.118  
Institutional investors may need to rebalance asset allocations for a variety of reasons, 
including:  
• Denominator effect: When values of other portfolio elements decline, private equity 
or credit may exceed the investor’s target allocation due to the denominator effect. 
Depending on the prevailing investment guidelines, the portfolio manager may be 
forced to sell some private finance positions (to the extent possible, as they are 
typically illiquid) to rebalance the portfolio. However, valuations of private assets 
in the portfolio may lag public market valuations considerably; situations may 
occur where rebalancing is triggered without full knowledge of changes in the 
underlying private asset pricing and adjustments could be premature.  
 
118   PEI LP Perspectives 2023 Study 
Figure 13: Average private credit exposure by institution type (%)  
 
Source: Private Debt Investor (2022) 2022 Investor Report 
 1.0  2.0  3.0  4.0  5.0  6.0
Private pension fund
Sovereign Wealth Fund
Public pension fund
Insurance Company
Foundation / Endowment
All institutions

=== PAGE 38 ===
 35
 
   
• Liquidity demands: Institutional investors have fiduciary responsibilities to ensure 
their investment strategies align with their liabilities. In the event of significant 
market downturns, insurers or pension plans may face liquidity constraints to meet 
their regular liabilities and this may prompt unplanned withdrawals. Private assets, 
which are frequently illiquid, may be unattractive to investors when their liquidity 
requirements rise (see, for example the gating of withdrawals by some real estate 
funds in 2022 amid higher redemption requests).119  
• Regulatory changes : Insurers and pension funds are highly regulated entities, 
subject to regular reporting to various supervisory bodies. Changes to their 
investment policies, regulations or accounting standards may require changes in 
their exposure to private assets.  
Secondary Markets  
As noted in earlier sections, l iquidity transformation is limited in private markets and 
investments are generally held to maturity in closed-end funds, with exit strategies typically 
involving, for example, public listings or trade sales. Yet the current exit environment is 
challenging, and some market participants have identified secondary markets as an 
increasingly attractive option for fund exits (see “Changing exit strategies”, above). 
Meanwhile, secondaries are stratifying beyond straight sales. For e xample, the following 
types of secondary transactions have recently become more prevalent:  
• Tender offer plus staple: GP-led secondary deals negotiated at a pre -set price and 
incentivized through additional capital committed fr om the buyer ( e.g., “stapled” 
to the tender offer). Volume in such deals increased in 2022 alongside the onset of 
tighter financing conditions . Denominator effect and investor over -allocation to 
private equity has been a key driver, while this option has been more beneficial to 
high demand funds.120   
• Multi-buyer (“mosaic”) sales: Selective bidding behaviour has also made “mosaic 
sales” more attractive, where portfolios are sold in parts to targeted buyers. Mosaic 
sales can lead to better pricing for the seller  than a straight sale, where buyers are 
looking to take parts of the portfolio to gain spe cific or strategic exposures. The 
average number of buyers in such transactions rose in 2022 to  3.5, up from 2.4 in 
2021.121   
• Continuation funds: New private equity funds raise new capital from investors to 
purchase the remaining portfolio companies from the original fund. These funds are 
also a potential source of conflict of interest (See “continuation funds” above).  
 
119   Burgess (2023) Investors face up to private funds’ illiquidity as rates rise, Advisor’s Edge, 26 
January 
120   “Tender Offers: An industry staple”, PEI  https://www.privateequityinternational.com/tender-
offers-an-industry-staple 
121   Jeffries, Global Secondary Market Review (January 2023); 
https://www.jefferies.com/CMSFiles/Jefferies.com/files/IBBlast/Jefferies-
Global_Secondary_Market_Review-January_2023.pdf 

=== PAGE 39 ===
 36
 
   
However, capital costs and availability have been identified as key risks in the current 
macroeconomic environment.122 There is also a risk amplification concern with reduced 
liquidity where certain participants may have come to expect that they may sell their private 
holdings at a later date, whether through a fund exit or secondary sale of units.  
Furthermore, where they do occur, transactions on secondary markets tend to be at a 
discount. Academic research on the liquidity cost of private equity investments found that 
the average and median transaction prices in the secondary market were 86.2% and 85.6% 
of NAV, respectively, for the sample of 2,226 secondary market transactions carried out in 
the period 2006- 2014.123 This characteristic – generally considered to be an illiquidity 
premium – could have the effect of amplifying any downwards pressure on prices. The 
research also highlights the high transaction costs incurred in secondary markets, most 
likely because of a limited number of participants and the asymmetric information about 
both funds and their portfolio firms. The authors found that transactions costs are highe r 
during poor economic times, when the fund is smaller, when the stake of the fund being 
transacted is smaller, and when funds have lower public market equivalent prices as of the 
transaction date.    
Retail investors 
Most investors in private finance activities are institutions as opposed to individual or retail 
investors. Compared with individual  or retail investors, institutional investors can have a 
greater capacity to invest for longer time horizons, reducing the likelihood of liquidity 
mismatches. They also tend to be better informed and may have greater bargaining power 
with fund managers, which reduces problems associated with informational  asymmetry. 
Yet increasingly, private fund managers are looking to expand their offerings to retail 
investors.  
For fund managers, retail investors represent a large, untapped pool of capital. While 
individual investors hold about half of the estimated $275-295 trillion USD in global assets 
under management, that same group only holds about 16% of alternative investment 
funds.124 Fund managers are looking to retail and individual investors to support continued 
growth, particularly as the flow of institutional capital slows. A December 2022 survey of 
100 fund managers by Dechert ,125 found that about 40% of respondents had seen an 
increased level of interest in setting up funds raising capital from retail investors over the 
preceding 12-24 months. In a 2021 survey by EY, 74% of fund managers responded that 
retail investors should, with some conditions, have more access to private markets.126  
Muted demand from individual  and retail investors for private finance products  has been 
attributed to variety of reasons, including: 
 
122   Pitchbook (2023) Q1 2023 Quantitative Perspectives: US Market Insights  
123   Nadauld, Sensoy and Weisbach (2016) The Liquidity Cost of Private Equity Investments: 
Evidence from Secondary Market Transactions 
124   Bain (2023) Global Private Equity Report 2023 
125   Dechert (2022) 2023 Global Private Equity Outlook (dechert.com) 
126  Y (2022) The future of Private Equity: embracing the "retail revolution"? 

=== PAGE 40 ===
 37
 
   
• Regulatory restrictions: Many jurisdictions restrict the ability of private equity and 
private credit funds to offer their products to retail investors. 
• High minimum investments : The standard minimum investment in private funds 
traditionally sits at a threshold most individual investors cannot meet.  
• Liquidity: Most investments are illiquid and held to maturity in closed -end funds, 
making them less attractive to individual investors who cannot afford to lock up 
their cash for multiple years at a time.  
• Distribution channels : Private finance products have not been set up for mass 
distribution, with most funds dealing directly with only a handful of institutional 
investors.127 Retail investors would also need advice on suitability. 
Increasing interest in retail investor participation   
In recent years, retail investor participation in private finance has increased in many 
jurisdictions. In the US, for example, retail investors increasingly participate via registered 
funds such as business development companies (BDCs) which typically focus on private 
credit.  
Similarly, regulators have expanded access to retail investors via a series of new investment 
vehicles including European Long-term Investment Funds (ELTIFs) and Long-Term Asset 
Funds (LTAFs) in the UK. These funds have lower minimum investment requirements and 
are designed to allow controlled access for some retail investors , thus lowering the 
regulatory and minimum investment barriers. Many investors may also be able to gain 
exposure to private finance activities through a pension fund or through, for example, listed 
investment companies. 
Wealth barriers to accredited investor status (which, while not strictly retail, solicits less 
stringent requirements than for typical institutional investors) have also lessened as a 
mechanical function of inflation. In some cases, these effects are significant. For example, 
in Australia, investors with a gross annual income of $250,000 AUD or net assets of at 
least $2.5 million AUD (including the primary residence) qualify as accredited investors. 
When this policy was  introduced in 2002, approximately 1.9% of the population met the 
criteria for wholesale investor status. In 2021, that figure had increased to about 11.3% of 
the population.128  
Some funds are also experimenting with innovative ways to reduce distribution costs, such 
as through the use of tokenization which has been flagged as a way to reduce both private 
market transaction costs and the size of minimum investments .129 Such innovations may 
someday have a direct impact on retail investors’ participation in private markets.  
On one hand, retail investor participation offers consumers the chance to invest in funds 
that have achieved almost double the annualized returns of their public equivalent for the 
past two decades. Yet there are significant risks. For example, informational asymmetry is 
of greater concern where investors are retail , rather than institutional. For example, 
 
127   See, for example Bain (2023) Global Private Equity Report 2023, McKinsey (2023)  
128   Phillips (2021) Sophisticated Investor Projections  
129   Bain (2023) Global Private Equity Report 2023 

=== PAGE 41 ===
 38
 
   
academic research has found that, while “poorly performing” asset managers appear to 
overstate NAVs around the time they are raising a follow -on fund, this effect is reduced 
where investors have the ability to detect bias.130 This implies that retail investors could be 
more exposed to risks associated with a lack of transparency (see “Transparency”, above), 
given relatively poorer access to information and resources. Furthermore, many of the 
liquidity risks associated with private finance activities are traditionally mitigated by the 
closed-end nature of the investments, yet retail investors may demand greater access to 
liquidity. 
Some industry analysts have also argued that fund managers may be looking to retail 
investors to fill the funding gaps left by retreating institutional investors .131 Where 
institutional investors are retreating due to risk aversion, by implication retail investors that 
step in could be exposed to higher than appropriate levels of risk.  
 
  
 
130   Block et al (2023) A Survey of Private Debt Funds 
131   Pitchbook (2023) Q1 2023 PitchBook Analyst Note: How Macro Risks Are Shaping the Outlook 
for US Private Markets | PitchBook 

=== PAGE 42 ===
 39
 
   
Chapter 4: Potential Risk Transmission to Public Markets  
The interconnections between public and private markets are strong and complex, and any 
significant stress event in either market could have spillover effects on the other. Common 
information flows affect both public and private markets because expectations in each 
market are influenced by macroeconomic and/or industry- specific news.  For example, 
expectations of a downturn could lead both banks and private credit funds to be more 
cautious with their lending. Information that affects expectations in one market can also 
impact trading and volatility in other markets because investors commonl y diversify their 
holdings across both public and private markets. As such, a change of demand in one 
market could flow through to other markets, including through hedging behavior  or sell-
offs.132   
The lines between public and private markets are blurring 
There has been  a significant increase in market -based credit intermediation, at the same 
time as a contraction in loans and bonds held by banks in advanced economies.133 External 
stakeholders have emphasized the interchangeability of public and private markets. Some 
participants remarked that the size and growth of private markets meant it was now a 
critical component to the functioning of the real economy, especially for specific sectors, 
such as technology and healthcare . These comments echo views expressed by certain 
industry analysts and academics.134  
External stakeholders also emphasized the potential productivity gains of private finance 
activity. For example, some noted that private credit in particular was not just substituting 
for bank financing, but also reflected an industry innovation, whereby credit is provided in 
ways that were previously not available.  
While there was no consensus on the level of risk in private finance activities, there was a 
general agreement among all external stakeholders that the public and private markets are 
now sufficiently intertwined that it is difficult to distinguish risks unique to one market and 
not the other : any one market event could have implications across both markets and, 
potentially, the broader financial system.   
Modelling these risks is challenging because of the lack of transparency in many 
jurisdictions, limited data, and the intricacy of financial systems that involve many different 
types of institutions, with complex inter-relationships. Given the increasing importance of 
private finance activities, the lack of transparency is a particular concern,  interfering with 
the ability of various stakeholders to fully contextualize applicable risks. However, there 
are two points of interconnection that stand out. Firstl y, the investors in both public and 
private markets typically overlap, apart from retail investors which do not, with some 
limited exceptions, directly access private markets. Secondly, banks and investment banks, 
play a crucial role in both public and private markets.  
 
132   Fleming et al 
133   OECD (2020) Structural developments in global finance intermediation – the rise of debt and non-
bank credit intermediaries 
134   See, for example, BIS (2021) The rise of private markets, BIS Quarterly Review, December 2021 

=== PAGE 43 ===
 40
 
   
Risk Transmission Channels  
A lack of available data covering all aspects of private finance activities makes mapping 
risk transmission challenging. However, one option is to focus on those market participants 
that provide the bridge between the public and private markets.  
For instance, investment banks  provide leverage to private credit funds . As illustrated in 
Figure 13, below, investment banks  are critical nodes in the financial system, and  their 
provision of leverage and exposures to a wide range of financial counterparties have proven 
to be a key risk transmission channel in the past. There is a risk that , if not properly 
managed, leverage in private finance could amplify losses and trigger wider market stress.  
On the investor side, large institutional investors such as pension funds and insurance 
companies are dominant players in both private finance investments and in public debt 
markets, such as corporate bond markets. Clients of banks are also significant investors in 
private finance. 135 Greater-than-expected losses could also have significant implications 
for these investors, amplified by asset liability matching.136  
In contrast, some industry stakeholders have indicated that they are unconcerned by the use 
of leverage in private markets. Some remarked that the use of credit lines or revolvers for 
speculative investment would naturally reduce given the higher interest rate environment , 
and that the use of leverage was not significant or material to a credit fund’s ability to lend. 
Similarly, participants did not think that investors used leverage when committing capital 
to private investments.  
 
135    See Preqin Special Report: Banks as Investors in Private Equity 
136   Aramonte (2020) Private credit: recent developments and long-term trends, BIS 
Figure 13: The role of banks in Private Finance 
 
Source: IOSCO (2023) 
Levered Corporate /
CRE / or other asset
Private Equity Fund
BanksPension funds / other
investors
Private Credit Fund
Public Markets
Debt
Private Markets
Leverage
Investment

=== PAGE 44 ===
 41
 
   
However, given the opacity of some leverage information, it is unlikely that any one market 
participant has a complete view on the amount and scale of leverage deployed. There is 
also likely to be jurisdictional variation.  
Increasing Credit Risk in a High Interest Environment 
This interconnectedness between different types of market participants through the use of 
credit facilities can amplify potential spillover  risks from private to public markets, as a 
default by one market participant could trigger a cascade of defaults throughout the system.  
Portfolio company defaults 
Private credit portfolio companies  are directly affected by monetary tightening since the 
majority of private credit is issued with floating rate agreements, and firms tend to be more 
highly leveraged than equivalent public companies.137 This increases the relative likelihood 
that firms default on payments to the private credit fund. For example, recent analysis from 
Moody’s analytics, which set up a portfolio of public and private debt and tested it against 
a range of economic scenarios , concluded that the private credit segment of the portfolio 
contributed materially to portfolio risk, despite accounting for a relatively small portion of 
exposures.138 A large increase in portfolio company defaults could lead a private credit 
fund to default on its debt . It may then look to promptly sell assets at a discount , which 
could result in losses for investors, including institutional investors, such as pension funds 
or insurance companies, who have invested in the fund.  
If the losses are significant enough, these investors may need to sell other assets to meet 
redemption requests, potentially leading to forced selling in public markets. In addition, if 
the debt is secured by private credit investments as collateral, the leverage provider to the 
private credit fund may seize that collateral upon default (though the debt may be worked 
out before that). Similarly, in the current inflationary environment, highly levered private 
equity portfolio companies would expect to see increased costs and may also see decreased 
output in the event of a broader downturn. Debt service coverage ratios for new loans will 
reduce as a mechanical function of increased interest rates, increasing the likelihood of 
payment default.  
Reduction in investor payments 
There are several ways in which investors could see an unexpected shortfall in payments , 
for example, if the portfolio company default s. Also, and as noted above (“Current 
macroeconomic context and its potential impacts”), the challenging exit environment for 
private equity firms could lead  to extended fund holding periods, resulting in unexpected 
delays before the distributions of a fund are realized and shared with investors.  
Investors in private funds may rely on these payments. For example, in North America, 
many pension funds are investors in private credit funds, with more than $100 billion USD 
invested in private credit .139 Globally, about 5.5% of private and 4.9% of public pension 
 
137   See, for example, S&P Global (2023) Look Forward Journal. This was also noted by external 
engagement participants 
138   Moody’s Analytics (2023) Private Debt: How much is too much in a credit portfolio 
139   Pension Investments in Private Credit Hit Eight-Year High, Heather Gillers, WSJ, January 29, 
2023 

=== PAGE 45 ===
 42
 
   
fund assets are allocated towards private credit. About 13% of public pension funds in the 
US are allocated towards private equity. 140 If portfolio companies in the fund default, the 
pension funds may be forced to offload more liquid assets to meet their obligations to 
members. Unexpected delays in fund closures could see pension funds forced to sell (more 
liquid) assets from the public book to meet their obligations. Alternatively, such pension 
funds may seek to sell their private fund interests in the secondary market, which, if actually 
done, may be accompanied with a significant haircut to their value.  
Other institutional investors that hold both private and public assets could face similar 
pressures in the event that distributions or repayments dry up. For example, some investors 
may have to adjust how they fund capital calls. Historically, investors wi th a mature 
private-asset program have been able to fund capital calls of young vintages entirely with 
distributions from older  vintages.  However, if distributions slow down more than 
committed capital contributions, that option will no longer be possible . This may force 
investors to raise liquidity by selling assets from the public book at unfavorable valuations, 
amplifying the effects of a downturn.  
Investors could seek early exits 
In addition to those identified, a range of other situations could lead investors to seek early 
exits from private markets. Such situations may include  losses in public markets . In 
particular, due to the lag in private equity valuations, losses in public markets may have 
the effect of leaving investors overexposed to private markets ( See Chapter 3, “Portfolio 
rebalancing”).  
Alternatively, s hocks to confidence may arise from sharp revaluations or limits on 
redemptions for semi-liquid funds. A valuation shock, or the prospect of one, could lead 
private investors to exercise a potential first mover advantage. Alternatively, a large gap 
between public and private valuations may lead investors who are looking to raise capital 
to “sell high”, in preference to crystallizing  losses in public markets.  (See Chapter 1, 
"Valuations”).  
Early exits from private markets are generally only possible though secondary markets, 
which could incur larger than usual discounts in times of stress (see Chapter 3, “Secondary 
markets”, above).  
Capital Costs and Availability  
The current economic slowdown has led to a slowdown in fund raising ( see “challenges 
for fund managers”, above). Banks have pulled back from funding leveraged transactions, 
and some analysts have reported a clear pivot towards lower risk across asset classes. 141 
This could have two main effects  as well as potential longer -term impacts on financing 
behavior if the higher interest rate environment persists.  
Firstly, a drying- up of new inflows to private capital markets may alter the funding 
dynamics of start-up companies and corporate deals. This is especially the case for sectors 
 
140   See, Pension fund allocation to private equity under target in 2023, S&P Global Market 
Intelligence 
141   See, for example, Dechert (2022) 2023 Global Private Equity Outlook (dechert.com) 

=== PAGE 46 ===
 43
 
   
and companies which are highly dependent on private capital , such as the technology and 
health sectors, or with lesser access to banking lending or public capital markets.  
Secondly, the pullback in bank lending may affect private finance portfolio companies’ 
abilities to refinance. If a large number of funds operating in the same area were unable to 
provide refinancing, assets may have to be sold at discounts or projects would stall, with 
direct implications for the real economy. External stakeholders argued that this would not 
be a concern for high quality assets, since private fund managers would step in to provide 
credit to firms in their portfolios, if needed ,142 however they noted that it could be a risk 
for lower quality firms.  
In the longer term, should the cost of private credit increase and the availability of private 
credit decrease, firms that were previously overly reliant on its availability may need to 
consider other options for raising capital. One scenario could mean that these firms would 
turn to public markets, if available to them, particularly if the balance between the cost of 
debt vs. equity shifts toward equity under a normalizing interest rate environment. 143 The 
prospect of having to raise capital through public markets, such as through an IPO,  or 
possibly through a Special Purpose Acquisition Company (SPAC) process , could bring 
conduct concerns into the public sphere. 144 For instance, inconsistencies with valuation 
practices may crystallize when portfolio companies need to adhere to public listing 
requirements.  
More generally, the increased dependency of small and middle-sized companies on private 
finance145 means that a decrease in the availability of private capital may have a significant 
impact on such companies' growth, although the magnitude of this is uncertain.  
In contrast, the March 2023 collapse of several regional banks in the United States may 
have presented an  opportunity for private credit funds and private credit investors. 
Depending on how this banking stress plays out , regional banks may pull back from  
providing finance to the mid- market segments that they have traditionally specialized in. 
For instance, the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERs), the largest 
public pension fund in the United States, has signaled a willingness to step in to provide 
financing to fill the gaps left behind by the banks.146 
Some external stakeholders have  shared similar views. I ncreasing interest rates are 
expected to make floating rate loan portfolios more profitable and, given a broad portfolio, 
the increase in profit could offset the financial risks from portfolio company defaults. 
However, refinancing risks were highlighted as pivotal, especially over the long- term 
horizon. 
 
142   Although, most external stakeholders noted that they did not lend to themselves, since this would 
result in a conflict of investors’ interests (see "Debt vs. equity investors of the same firm", above). 
143  See, for example, IOSCO (2020) Conflicts of interest and associated conduct risks during the 
equity capital raising process. This could also have implications for private debt vs. public debt 
costs.   
144   See,for example, IOSCO (2023) Special Purpose Acquisition Companies  
 
145   BIS (2021) The rise of private markets, BIS Quarterly Review, December 2021  
146   Drean (2023) Silicon Valley Bank Collapse And Credit Suisse Rescue Are A Boon For Private 
Equity, Forbes.com, 5 April 2023  

=== PAGE 47 ===
 44
 
   
Conclusions 
Private finance markets have grown rapidly since the GFC due to accommodative monetary 
policy, bank retrenchment, and cost advantages versus other sources of finance. Global 
macro-financial conditions have significantly changed in the near -term. Higher int erest 
rates in particular could expose vulnerabilities in private markets. However, private finance 
is inherently opaque and consequently there is a lack of clear understanding of the level of 
risk in private finance activities.  Nonetheless, it is evident that private and public markets 
are intertwined to the degree that any one market event could have implications across both 
markets and, potentially, the broader financial system.   
Private markets lack transparency when compared with publicly listed markets. This gives 
rise to greater asymmetries of information. Listing and disclosure requirements are 
designed to give investors and the market sufficiently reliable public information to 
effectively assess corporate profitability and assess risks. While transparency in public 
markets comes at a cost to issuers and their shareholders, it helps to support efficient price 
formation and reduces search costs for investors. In contrast, while regulatory compliance 
costs in private markets are lower, investors are more reliant on specialist intermediaries 
such as private equity and private credit firms to conduct more bespoke and costly due 
diligence on their behalf.  Though not straightforward, it is clear that any attempts to 
increase transparency (either for regulators or market participants) in a market built with 
opacity as a key functional feature would need to carefully balance the increased costs to 
market participants, with the benefits to the financial system more broadly. 
While this opacity provides investors with some insulation from transparency costs , and 
volatility faced in public markets, it could also jeopardize availability of information that  
investors and regulators require to effectively assess risks.  This includes risks that could 
arise due to the way in which private finance firms conduct their activities (e.g., valuations, 
conflicts of interest), from their interconnections with the wider financial system, and from 
how macro-financial developments could impact the sector, the portfolio companies that 
receive finance, and the real economy.   
The investment landscape is changing dramatically with the return of inflation and the rapid 
shift to interest rate normalisation. This creates a number of prospective challenges to 
funding models within certain sectors, in terms of continuing access to cheap, secure 
sources of debt funding. Potential questions therefore arise in terms of these sectors’ ability 
to navigate this transition to the “new normal”. 
If interest rates stay at current levels for longer than expected, it is highly likely that there 
will be a reduction in the availability of funding to support private finance activities. While 
private finance firms have accumulated a significant amount of  dry powder, the extent to 
which this could mitigate this risk is unclear.  In addition, portfolio companies are likely to 
face higher rates on existing borrowing, which is typically floating rate, as well as on new 
and refinanced borrowing.  Market partic ipants noted that these risks were particularly 
stark over the medium to long-term.  Portfolio companies will also be subject to increased 
cost pressures due to  elevated inflation. While flexibility on the financing arrangements 
may help portfolio companies navigate short-term market strains, defaults are expected to 
increase over the medium to long- term.  Overall, there could be significant impacts on 
concentrated sectors (e.g., t echnology and healthcare) that have become reliant on a 
constant flow of affordable financing.  

=== PAGE 48 ===
 45
 
   
The lack of reliable insight into the risks of these private finance investments means that it 
is difficult to determine with any certainty whether the impact of higher defaults would be 
worse than what may occur in public markets. However, the impact coul d nonetheless be 
significant, and in public markets, financial risks particularly around refinancing, are better 
known and actively monitored by regulators and investors.  
There are conflicts of interest, for example, between a fund manager’s investors in different 
investment products, such as  where one of its debt funds lends to portfolio companies in 
one of its equity funds. There are also  conflicts of interest in some aspects of valuations, 
transaction negotiation practices and GP-led secondary markets. However, it is difficult to 
assess the scale of these risks, the frequency in which these issues arise and the extent to 
which they are managed effectively. Should the relative increase in the cost of debt lead to 
a renewed interest in equity financing, such valuation concerns could be unearthed under a 
scenario where portfolio companies and their sponsors would need to face the prospect of 
raising capital through the public equity markets (e.g., through IPOs or SPACs).  
The relative lack of transparency in private finance markets is especially relevant when 
considering any increased participation by retail investors. Private market participants 
appear keen to push toward new sources of capital, but this move would naturally come at 
the cost of the investment products being subject to more regulation and higher standards 
of governance and oversight than those required when selling to institutional investors. 
Similarly, characteristics of the products and the market may need to change to enable this 
(e.g., to offer liquidity, more information, and to ensure investors receive suitable advice). 
While private finance activities present potential risks , including to IOSCO objectives, 
there are areas where they could provide benefits to the financial system and the real 
economy. Increasingly, private companies and their private equity sponsors use private 
markets to meet their funding needs, either in preference to banks or because banks  are 
unwilling or unable to provide credit. Some market participants argue that this has 
considerable benefits, for example, private credit providers may be able to provide more 
bespoke, flexible covenants, higher risk tolerance, and a longer investment horizon than 
banks are willing to support. 147 Private credit providers could also be more flexible than 
banks in helping borrowers avoid default and restructuring debt i n times of stress. 
However, private finance has largely grown in a period of accommodative macro-financial 
conditions, which has now changed. The sector may be tested in the medium to long term 
(e.g., as portfolio companies seek to refinance), and could respond in ways that uncover 
hidden risks.  
 
 
   
 
147   Block et al (2023) A Survey of Private Debt Funds 

=== PAGE 49 ===
 46
 
   
Abbreviations 
AIFMD  Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive 
AIMA Alternative Investment Management Association 
BDC Business development company 
BSL Broadly syndicated loans 
CDO Collateralised debt obligation 
CFO Collateralised fund obligation 
CLO Collateralised loan obligations 
CPC Controlled portfolio company 
EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization 
ELTIF European Long-Term Investment Fund 
GFC Global financial crisis 
GFCF Gross fixed capital formation 
GP General Partner 
ICO Initial Coin Offering 
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards 
IOSCO International Organization of Securities Commissions 
IPO Initial Public Offering 
IRR Internal Rate of Return 
LBO Leveraged buyout 
LP Limited partnership 
LTAFs Long Term Asset Fund 
M&A Mergers & Acquisitions 
NAV Net asset value 
SMA Separately managed account 
SMEs Small and medium-sized enterprises 
SPV Special purpose vehicle 
 