

=== PAGE 1 ===
  
 
 
Policy Recommendations for Crypto and Digital Asset Markets 
 
Final Report 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
THE BOARD 
OF THE 
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF SECURITIES COMMISSIONS 
 
 
FR11/2023 16 NOVEMBER 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 2 ===
 
 
ii 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copies of publications are available from:  
The International Organization of Securities Commissions website: www.iosco.org  
 
© International Organization of Securities Commissions 2023. All rights reserved. Brief ex cerpts may be 
reproduced or translated provided the source is stated. 
  

=== PAGE 3 ===
 
 
iii 
 
 
  
  

=== PAGE 4 ===
 
 
iv 
 
 
Table of Contents 
Chapter Page 
 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 1 
   
 INTRODUCTION 3 
   
1 OVERARCHING RECOMMENDATION ADDRESSED TO ALL REGULATORS 13 
 Preamble: Intent of the Recommendations  
Recommendation 1 – Common Standards of Regulatory Outcomes 
 
2 RECOMMENDATIONS ON GOVERNANCE AND DISCLOSURE OF 
CONFLICTS 16 
 Recommendation 2 – Organizational Governance 
Recommendation 3 – Disclosure of Role, Capacity and Trading conflicts 
 
3 RECOMMENDATIONS ON ORDER HANDLING AND TRADE 
DISCLOSURES (TRADING INTERMEDIARIES VS MARKET OPERATORS) 19 
 Recommendation 4 – Order Handling 
Recommendation 5 – Trade Disclosures 
 
4 RECOMMENDATIONS IN RELATION TO LISTING OF CRYPTO -ASSETS 
AND CERTAIN PRIMARY MARKET ACTIVITIES  22 
 Recommendation 6 – Admission to Trading 
Recommendation 7 – Management of Primary Markets Conflicts 
 
5 RECOMMENDATIONS TO ADDRESS ABUSIVE BEHAVIORS   26 
 Recommendation 8 – Fraud and Market Abuse 
Recommendation 9 – Market Surveillance 
Recommendation 10 – Management of Material Non-Public Information 
 
6 RECOMMENDATION ON CROSS-BORDER CO-OPERATION 31 
 Recommendation 11 – Enhanced Regulatory Co-operation  
7 RECOMMENDATIONS ON CUSTODY OF CLIENT MONIES AND ASSETS  33 
 Recommendation 12 – Overarching Custody Recommendation 
Recommendation 13 – Segregation and Handling of Client Monies and 
Assets 
 

=== PAGE 5 ===
 
 
v 
 
 
Recommendation 14 – Disclosure of Custody and Safekeeping 
Arrangements 
Recommendation 15 –  Client Asset Reconciliation and Independent 
Assurance 
Recommendation 16 – Securing Client Money and Assets 
8 RECOMMENDATION TO ADDRESS OPERATIONAL AND 
TECHNOLOGICAL RISKS 39 
 Recommendation 17 – Management and disclosure of Operational and 
Technological Risks  
9 RECOMMENDATION FOR RETAIL DISTRIBUTION 41 
 Recommendation 18 – Retail Client Appropriateness and Disclosure  
   
Annex A Glossary of Relevant Terms and Definitions 44 
Annex B Feedback Statement 46 
Annex C Overview of Stablecoins, their Roles and Uses in Crypto-Asset Markets  69 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 6 ===
 
1 
 
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
The 18 IOSCO policy recommendations for the regulation of crypto and digital assets 
(Recommendations) included in this Final Report are designed to support greater consistency with 
respect to regulatory frameworks and oversight in IOSCO member jurisdictions, to address concerns 
related to market integrity and investor protection arising from crypto -asset activities. The 
Recommendations have been developed under the stewardship of the IOSCO Board’s Fintech Task 
Force (FTF) in accordance with IOSCO’s Crypto-Asset Roadmap published in June 2022.1  
The Recommendations are principles -based and outcomes -focused and are aimed at the activities 
performed by crypto -asset service providers (CASPs) .2 They apply IOSCO’s widely accepted global 
standards for securities markets regulation to address key issues and risks identified in crypto -asset 
markets. The Recommendations are activities -based and follow a ‘lifecycle’ approach in addressing 
the key risks identified in this report. They cover the range of activities in crypto-asset markets that 
involve CASPs from offering, admission to trading, ongoing trading, settlement, market surveillance 
and custody as well as marketing and distribution (covering advised and non-advised sales) to retail 
investors. IOSCO separately consulted on proposed policy recommendations for “decentralized 
finance” or “DeFi” on 7 September 2023, which will be finali zed by the end of 2023. 3 At that time, 
IOSCO will also publish an umbrella note explaining in more detail the interoperability between the 
two sets of recommendations. 
One of IOSCO’s goals is to promote greater consistency with respect to how IOSCO members 
approach the regulation and oversight of crypto-asset activities, given the cross-border nature of the 
markets, the risks of regulatory arbitrage and the significant risk of harm to which retail investors 
continue to be exposed. IOSCO is also seeking to encourage optimal consistency in the way crypto -
asset markets and securities markets are regulated within individual IOSCO jurisdictions, in 
accordance with the principle of “same activities, same risks, same regulation/regulatory outcomes”.  
 
1 The FTF was established in March 2022 to develop recommendations to the Board of IOSCO and thereafter to 
oversee the implementation of IOSCO’s regulatory agenda for Fintech and crypto -assets. The FTF is prioritizing 
policy-focused work on crypto -asset markets and activities in its initial 12 to 24 months of operation, while 
continuing to monitor market developments associated with broader Fintech-related trends and innovation. 
2 CASPs are service providers that conduct a wide range of activities relating to crypto -assets, including but not 
limited to, admission to trading, trading (as agent or principal), operating a market, custody, and other activities 
such as services relating to  lending/staking of crypto -assets and the promotion , marketing and distribution of 
crypto-assets on behalf of others. 
3  https://www.iosco.org/library/pubdocs/pdf/IOSCOPD744.pdf. 

=== PAGE 7 ===
 
2 
 
 
The Recommendations also cover the need for enhanced co -operation among regulators. They aim 
to provide a critical benchmark for IOSCO members to cooperate, coordinate and respond to cross-
border challenges in enforcement and supervision, including regulatory arbitrage concerns, that arise 
from global crypto-asset activities conducted by CASPs that offer their services, often remotely, into 
multiple jurisdictions. 
In line with IOSCO’s established approach for financial market regulation, these Recommendations 
are addressed to relevant authorities. They look to support jurisdictions seeking to establish 
compliant markets for the trading of crypto-assets in the most effective way possible. 
While the Recommendations are not directly addressed to markets participants, CASPs and all 
participants in crypto-asset markets are strongly encouraged to carefully consider the expectations 
and outcomes articulated through the Recommendations and the respective supporting guidance in 
the conduct of their activities including registered/licensed, and cross-border activities. 
  

=== PAGE 8 ===
 
3 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
IOSCO is issuing these 18 Recommendations to help IOSCO members apply IOSCO’s Objectives and 
Principles for Securities Regulation and relevant supporting IOSCO standards, recommendations, 
and good practices (hereafter “IOSCO Standards”), as appropriate, to crypto -asset activities within 
their jurisdictions and, in particular, to respond to widespread concerns regarding market integrity 
and investor protection within the crypto-asset markets. 
The 18 Recommendations cover six key areas, consistent with IOSCO Standards: 
1. Conflicts of interest arising from vertical integration of activities and functions, 
2. Market manipulation, insider trading and fraud,  
3. Cross-border risks and regulatory co-operation, 
4. Custody and client asset protection,  
5. Operational and technological risk, and  
6. Retail access, suitability, and distribution. 
Acknowledging the definitional and interpretive jurisdictional differences that currently exist, 
IOSCO has developed the Recommendations by developing a functional, economic approach to 
mitigate against the risks, rather than attempting to develop a one-size fits all prescriptive taxonomy.  
Accordingly, IOSCO has developed an outcomes-focused, principles-based approach across each key 
area noted above. This approach is informed by a mapping of IOSCO Standards to relevant elements 
of the infrastructure, and to the services provided by, and the activities of CASPs.  
By doing this, IOSCO has been able to examine and assess how its existing policy framework maps 
to key identified risks in crypto-asset markets, which IOSCO and its members understand from their 
expertise as securities markets and conduct regulators. 
 
  

=== PAGE 9 ===
 
4 
 
 
OVERVIEW OF KEY CONTENTS OF THE REPORT 
This Final Report, and the 18 Recommendations contained within, are structured thematically as 
follows: 
• Introduction  
This provides an overview of the key content and structure of the report, along with the broader 
international regulatory and market context for the development of the Recommendations.  
• Chapter 1 – Overarching Recommendation Addressed to All Regulators 
This Chapter lays down an overarching Recommendation and supporting guidance calling upon 
all IOSCO members, collectively, to apply or adopt these R ecommendations in a consistent, 
outcomes-focused manner.  
As set out in Recommendation 1 (‘Overarching Recommendation Addressed to All Regulators ’), 
the regulatory frameworks (existing or new) should seek to achieve regulatory outcomes for 
investor protection and market integrity that are the same as, or consistent with, those required 
in traditional financial markets in order to facilitate a level-playing field between crypto-assets 
and traditional financial markets and help reduce the risk of regulatory arbitrage.  
Regulators are therefore encouraged to analy ze the applicability and adequacy of their 
regulatory frameworks, and the extent to which (1) crypto-assets are, or behave like substitutes 
for, regulated financial instruments, and (2) investors have substituted other financial 
investment activities with crypto -asset investment activities. Accordingly, this report focusses 
on the economic substance of crypto -assets and their substitutability vis-à -vis traditional 
financial instruments (notwithstanding a crypto-asset’s purported potential use case or purpose 
as stated in supporting marketing and/or distribution materials).    
In adopting this approach, these Recommendations are designed to apply to all types of crypto-
assets, including stablecoins. W here further risks are presented by stablecoins, these  are 
explored by way of the supplementary guidance on stablecoins included in box text under 
Recommendation 6 and the Custody and Client Assets Recommendations.4  
Through its preamble (‘Preamble: Intent of the Recommendations’ ), Chapter 1 further clarifies 
the intent of the R ecommendations. This operative provision, that informs all 18 
Recommendations while underscoring the need to promote optimal regulatory consistency 
 
4   The targeted commentary on stablecoins builds on the findings of the March 2020 IOSCO Report on Global 
Stablecoin Initiatives. 

=== PAGE 10 ===
 
5 
 
 
across member jurisdictions, also acknowledges, and provides for, appropriate principles, and 
outcomes-based flexibility in their domestic implementation.5   
• Chapter 2 – Recommendations on Governance and Disclosure of Conflicts 
This Chapter includes the Recommendations and supporting guidance to address risks arising, 
in particular, from vertically integrated CASP business models. Many CASPs typically engage in 
multiple functions and activities under ‘one roof’ – including exchange trading, brokerage, 
market-making and other proprietary trading, offering margin trading, custody, settlement, and 
re-use of assets – whether through a single legal entity or an affiliated group of entities that are 
part of a wider group structure. Reco mmendation 2 (‘Organi zational Governance’) states that 
CASPs should have effective governance and organizational requirements in place to effectively 
address and mitigate issues on conflicts of interests arising from vertical integration, including 
the possible need for measures such as legal segregation of functions and activities, as well as 
separate registration. Where a CASP engages in different activities and functions in a crypto -
asset trading environment, it is important for investors and regulators to understand the precise 
activities and functions that the CASP is providing, and the capacity in which it is acting, in 
relation to its clients. Accordingly, Recommendation 3 (‘Disclosure of Role, Capacity and Trading 
Conflicts’) states that a CASP should accurately disclose each role and capacity in which it is 
acting at all times.  
• Chapter 3 – Recommendations on Order Handling and Trade Disclosures (Trading 
Intermediaries vs Market Operators) 
This Chapter includes R ecommendations and supporting guidance in the areas of Order 
Handling and Trade Disclosures. Despite common market parlance of referring to CASPs as 
“exchanges”, a CASP may actually be operating as a trading intermediary (a broker or dealer or 
both) instead of a market operator (or trading venue). Recommendation 4 (Client Order 
Handling’) addresses inherent conflicts of interests, where CASPs might front-run clients’ orders 
in favor of their  own or engage in related party transactions . CASPs are thus expected to 
 
5   The Recommendations recognize that some jurisdictions have existing regulatory frameworks that encompass 
crypto and digital assets, while other jurisdictions are in the process of developing regulatory frameworks.  Each 
jurisdiction should implement the CDA Recommendations, as they deem appropriate, within their existing or 
developing frameworks.          
            
            
            
            
             

=== PAGE 11 ===
 
6 
 
 
implement systems, policies and procedures that provide for fair, orderly, timely execution that 
is in the best interest of clients. In the context of a CASP acting as a market operator (or trading 
venue), it is expected to have resilient systems to effectively support its operation in a fair, 
orderly and transparent manner. Recommendation 5 (‘Market Operation Requirements’) sets out 
transparency requirements in trade disclosures to promote price discovery and competition, 
which apply to all CASPs and not j ust those acting as market operators. Transparency 
requirements and trade disclosure expectations apply to both on-chain and off-chain activity.  
• Chapter 4 –  Recommendations in Relation to the Listing of Crypto -Assets and Certain 
Primary Market Activities.   
This Chapter relates to the management of conflicts of interest that  may arise from the listing 
and trading of crypto -assets by CASPs. Many crypto -assets are sold without important 
disclosures about the crypto -asset and its issuer. There is a lack of accurate and sufficient 
disclosures to facilitate informed decision-making, a key tenet of traditional financial markets. 
There also tends to be little, if any, verifiable continuous information provided about or by the 
crypto-asset issuer. Recommendation 6 (‘Admission to Trading’) states that CASPs should adopt 
and disclose substantive and procedural listing and delisting standards pertaining to crypto -
assets. The recommendation also specifies the types of disclosures that regulators may consider 
requiring, including information that may be more relevant to stablecoins. Recommendation 7 
(‘Management of Primary Markets Conflicts’) is concerned specifically with the management of 
conflicts around crypto-assets issued by crypto-asset issuers in which the CASP has a  material 
interest. Conflict mitigants could include prohibitions on the CASP listing/trading such assets. 
• Chapter 5 – Recommendations to Address Abusive Behaviors 
This Chapter provides Recommendations and supporting guidance to address market integrity 
risks, exacerbated by the fragmented, cross-border nature of the crypto -asset market, such as 
(1) the lack of effective market surveillance, (2) manipulative market practices (including 
pyramid and Ponzi schemes, ‘pump and dump’ schemes, wash-trading, and front-running), (3) 
insider dealing and unlawful disclosure of inside information; and (4) fraudulent, misleading, 
or insufficient disclosure . To address such behaviors, Recommendations 8 to 10 ( ‘Fraud a nd 
Market Abuse; Market Surveillance; Management of Non-Public Information’) set out the critical 
expectation that there should be effective systems and controls to identify and monitor for 
manipulative market practices and to prevent leakage and misuse of inside information. 
Consideration is given to the availability of data (‘on-chain’ and ‘off-chain’), consistent reporting 

=== PAGE 12 ===
 
7 
 
 
standards and the existing tools available to regulatory authorities (e.g ., intelligence and co -
operation) and market participants (e.g., surveillance systems and controls). Alongside ongoing 
efforts to improve regulatory reporting, regulators should encourage CASPs and the wider 
industry ecosystem to promote and adhere to international data standards to help improve 
market transparency and facilitate effective regulatory reporting and market monitoring. 
• Chapter 6 – Recommendation on Cross-Border Co-operation  
This Chapter and its supporting guidance respond to the cross-border character of crypto-asset 
trading by setting out a critical recommendation for how IOSCO members should adopt best 
practices for international co -operation to help ensure effective superv ision and enforcement 
(see Recommendation 11 ‘Enhanced Regulatory Co -operation’), and to reduce the risk of money 
laundering. Experience has shown that CASPs often present themselves as operating in a 
borderless manner and tend to take an ambivalent approa ch to regulatory compliance. This –  
in tandem with the global reach of the crypto-asset market, its participants, activities, and some 
unique characteristics linked to the underlying distributed ledger technology (“DLT”) and 
cryptography, as well as the scale and scope for cross-border regulatory arbitrage – means that 
investor protection and market integrity issues will persist without coordinated international 
regulatory action to address them. IOSCO’s wide memberships in securities and derivatives 
markets, with market conduct regulatory expertise and existing information -sharing tools for 
authorization, supervision and enforcement, are well positioned to achieve investor protection 
and market integrity objectives. 
• Chapter 7 – Recommendations on Custody of Client Monies and Assets  
This Chapter provides Recommendations and supporting guidance to deal with custody-related 
risks and the safeguarding of Client Monies and Assets and to provide clients with clear, concise 
and non-technical disclosures of the associated risks. These risks relate, for example, to the asset 
segregation, re -use of assets, liability and ownership considerations. The Recommendations 
address, amongst other things, the controls that should be embedded within regulatory 
frameworks to help ensure that where Client Monies and Assets are held by CASPs, they are 
held safely, and transferred securely, and that inappropriate mixing of assets and other potential 
abuses are avoided . (See Recommendations 12 to 16: ‘Overarching Custody Recommendation’; 
‘Segregation and Handling of Client Monies and Assets’; ‘Disclosure of Custody and Safekeeping 

=== PAGE 13 ===
 
8 
 
 
Arrangements’; Client Asset Reconciliation and Independent Assurance; Securing Client Money 
and Assets’).  
• Chapter 8 – Recommendation to Address Operational and Technological Risks  
This Chapter provides the Recommendations and supporting guidance to address the broad 
spectrum of operational risks that can arise because of lax controls at CASPs combined with the 
risks related to DLT and smart contracts. (See Recommendation 17 ‘Management and Disclosure 
of Operational and Technological Risks’). 
• Chapter 9 – Recommendation for Retail Distribution 
This Chapter provides the recommendation and supporting guidance to address the particular 
issues not covered elsewhere in this report that arise from CASPs’ promotions to retail investors 
of activities  and services relating to crypto -assets. Recommendation 18 (‘Retail Client 
Appropriateness and Disclosure’) sets out to help ensure that existing or new regulations require 
CASPs to diligently assess and onboard retail investors who are aware of, and deemed suitable 
to take on, the greater speculative risks inherent in this market, and to use appropriate measures 
when promoting crypto -assets to this population, including if crypto -assets are promoted on 
social media. Indeed, retail investors often would not otherwise hold or trade their own 
investment portfolios but for the marketing efforts by CASP s to onboard them. Therefore, a 
particularly acute asymmetry of information arises between CASPs and the retail investor, the 
significance of which is intensified by the weak market discipline arising in part from the 
relatively low level of participation of institutional and professional investors, and the 
unregulated or non-compliant distribution channels that are used to distribute crypto-assets to 
retail investors, often on a cross-border basis.   
Applicability of the Recommendations to Stablecoins 
While each of the Recommendations in this Final Report also apply to stablecoins ,6 specific 
additional guidance in relation to stablecoin disclosures and the custody of reserve assets is 
included in the box text under Recommendation 6 and the Custody of Client Money Asset 
 
6  As noted in the preamble to Recommendation 1, particular jurisdictions may allocate responsibility for the 
regulation and oversight of certain kinds of stablecoins to different Regulators that possess discrete and 
complementary mandates and objectives, to address investor protection and market integrity risks. 

=== PAGE 14 ===
 
9 
 
 
Recommendations.   
There are also additional policy recommendations regarding stablecoins, beyond IOSCO’s, of 
which regulators should be cognizant. These include the F inancial Stability Board (F SB) 
Recommendations on the Regulation, Supervision and Oversight of “Global Stablecoin” 
Arrangements and CPMI-IOSCO’s report on stablecoin arrangements, noting potential use 
cases of stablecoins as a payment instrument. 
In applying these Recommendations, regulators should consider any unique issues, risks, and 
conflicts that CASPs have regarding stablecoin arrangements. The Recommendations regarding 
conflicts of interest, speculation, and disclosure are particularly important (Recommendations 
2, 3, 7, 8). For example, a CASP may be directly involved with a stablecoin issuer in creating and 
redeeming stablecoins and/or maintaining the stablecoin price peg, which creates conflicts and 
gives rise to potential misuse of inside information, market manipulation and other 
misconduct. In addition, risks to crypto-asset trading markets and CASPs are directly affected 
by the credit risk of the stablecoin issuer.   
The critical role of stablecoins in crypto-asset markets, and their potential to be used in cross-
border activities, highlight the importance of cross-border co-operation (Recommendation 11). 
Annex C includes a brief overview of stablecoins, their roles and uses in crypto-asset markets, 
and describes some of their idiosyncratic features and risks.  
Stakeholder Engagement  
These Recommendations and guidance take into account feedback from the public consultation, 
as well as extensive pre-consultation outreach with IOSCO members and external stakeholders. 
They have also benefited from the advice of IOSCO’s Affiliate Member Consultative Committee 
(AMCC).7  
Interaction with the FSB and the other Standard Setting Bodies 
At a global level, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the FSB are calling for more 
regulation of the crypto -asset market. Acting on IOSCO’s investor protection and market 
 
7  The AMCC is comprised of 68 IOSCO affiliate members, representing securities and derivatives markets and other 
market infrastructures, self-regulatory organizations (SROs), investor protection funds and compensation funds, 
as well as other bodies with appropriate interest in securities reg ulation. There are currently 32 jurisdictions 
represented in the AMCC which also includes ten regional or international associations.” 

=== PAGE 15 ===
 
10 
 
 
integrity mandates, these Recommendations look to complement and support the work of the 
FSB and the sectoral initiatives of other international Standard Setting Bodies (SSBs). Risks to 
investors and markets arising from market integrity and investor protection concerns can also 
have a consequential systemic impact within crypto-asset markets, and potentially also on wider 
financial stability given the lack of transparency and possible growing linkages to the traditional 
financial sector.   
IOSCO is also pursuing its systemic risk mandate for crypto-asset market activities through its 
engagement with the FSB’s agenda on the financial stability implications of crypto-assets. On 17 
July 2023, the FSB published its two final reports on the international regulation, supervision 
and oversight of crypto -assets activities and markets from a financial stability perspective. 8 
These FSB reports set out high -level principles for crypto-asset markets.  The IOSCO 
Recommendations set out more granular regulatory expectations to mitigate the market and 
conduct risks. This helps to ensure alignment and complementarity in the respective regulatory 
agendas.    
Through CPMI-IOSCO,9 IOSCO also published guidance on the application of the principles for 
financial market infrastructure (PFMIs) to systemically important stablecoin arrangements used 
for payments10 and continues to monitor market developments.  
The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) has finalized a standard on the prudential 
treatment of banks’ exposure to crypto -assets. Following the publication of the crypto -asset 
standard, there are various elements of the standard that are subject to close monitoring and 
review.  
Furthermore, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) has issued guidance concerning how 
FATF Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Counter Terrorist Financing (CTF) obligations apply 
to virtual assets and virtual asset service providers.11 For example, the Travel Rule requires virtual 
asset service providers and other financial institutions to share relevant originator and 
beneficiary information alongside virtual asset transactions. This, combined with the other work 
 
8   See ‘High-level Recommendations for the Regulation, Supervision and Oversight of Crypto -Asset Activities and 
Markets (Final Report)’  and ‘High-level Recommendations for the Regulation, Supervision and Oversight of 
Global Stablecoin Arrangement (Final Report)’. 
9  Committee on Payments and Market Infrastructures. 
10   See Application of the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures (PFMI) to stablecoin arrangements. 
11  See, e.g., Updated Guidance for a Risk-Based Approach to Virtual Assets and Virtual Asset Service Providers. 

=== PAGE 16 ===
 
11 
 
 
being progressed by global SSBs, illustrates the concerted international effort taking place to 
develop a coordinated global framework of regulation and supervision for crypto -assets to 
address the risks associated with crypto-asset activities.  
Market Backdrop informing the Need to Develop a Globally Consistent and 
Coordinated Approach to Crypto-Asset Regulation 
Given the global nature and certain unique characteristics of the crypto -asset market, the 
application of robust regulatory standards alongside international regulatory co-operation will 
be pivotal to help ensure that any useful innovation can occur while minimizing the risk of 
regulatory arbitrage and maintaining standards of investor protection and market integrity. 
Global retail investor exposure to crypto-assets has grown exponentially in recent years, as have 
retail investor losses due, not only to market conditions, but also regulatory non -compliance, 
financial crime, fraud, market manipulation, money laundering and other illegal crypto -asset 
market practices. The fragility and interconnectedness of the crypto-asset market continues to 
leave entities and investors exposed to significant losses triggered by all too frequent shock 
events.12   
Given the speculative nature driving the demand for many crypto -assets, the lack of intrinsic 
value in the vast majority of crypto-assets, high levels of retail participation, and the history of 
losses suffered by retail investors, robust investor protection measures are essential . For 
example, data from the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) examining CASP activity,  
calculated on a sample of more than 200 crypto -asset trading apps operating in more than 95 
countries, from August 2015 – December 2022, shows that a majority of the users of such apps 
in nearly all economies experienced losses on their bitcoin holdings.13   
Many retail investors conduct their trading activities through, and entrust custody of their 
crypto-assets to, CASPs. There have been many  cases where CASPs, including those with the 
 
12  Examples in 2022 alone include Terra / Luna, Celsius, Voyager, Three Arrows Capital, and FTX. 
13  See BIS Bulletin No. 69: Crypto shocks and retail losses  More users trade when the bitcoin price increases…but a 
large share of users in nearly all economies probably lost money. In nearly all economies in the sample, a majority 
of investors probably lost money on their bitcoin investment. The median investor wo uld have lost $431 by 
December 2022, corresponding to almost half of their total $900 in funds invested since downloading the app. 
Notably, this share is even higher in several emerging market economies like Brazil, India, Pakistan, Thailand and 
Turkey. If investors continued to invest at a monthly frequency, over four fifths of users would have lost money. 

=== PAGE 17 ===
 
12 
 
 
largest market share and highest trading volumes, 14 have demonstrated a lack of willingness to 
comply with applicable regulatory frameworks that seek to achieve investor protection and 
market integrity outcomes, and in many cases have structured their operations in a way to evade 
such frameworks. By not complying with such measures, CASPs profit off retail investors while 
seeking to avoid the crucial safeguards that come with adherence to regulatory requirements. 
  
 
14  According to some data, the three largest CASPs purportedly account  for almost three quarters of all trading 
volume. 
 

=== PAGE 18 ===
 
13 
 
 
CHAPTER 1: OVERARCHING RECOMMENDATION ADDRESSED TO ALL REGULATORS 
Preamble: Intent of the Recommendations  
The exposure of retail investors across the globe to crypto -assets has grown in recent years, as 
have retail investor losses amid regulatory non-compliance, financial crime, fraud, market 
manipulation, money laundering and other illegal crypto- asset market activity. Given the similar 
economic functions and activities of the crypto -asset market and the traditional financial 
markets, many existing international policies, standards and jurisdictional regulatory 
frameworks are applicable to crypto-asset activities. 
IOSCO is issuing  these Recommendations to help IOSCO members apply relevant existing 
IOSCO objectives, principles, standards, recommendations and good practices, as appropriate, 
to crypto -asset activities within their jurisdictions . More specifically , the Recommendations 
respond to widespread concerns regarding investor protection and market integrity within the 
crypto-asset markets. The need to address these concerns is evident from repeated instances of 
market turmoil involving crypto -asset trading, lending and borrowing platforms and other 
market participants, resulting in significant losses and risks to retail investors due to inadequate 
protections and safeguards. 
Many crypto-asset activities and markets currently operate in non-compliance with applicable 
regulatory frameworks or are unregulated. These Recommendations recognize that some 
jurisdictions have existing regulatory frameworks that encompass crypto  and digital assets, 
while some jurisdictions are in the process of developing regulatory frameworks. In addition, in 
some jurisdictions, the regulatory framework may allocate responsibility for the regulation and 
oversight of crypto and digital assets to differen t Regulators that possess discrete and 
complementary mandates and objectives, to address investor protection and market integrity 
risks. Each jurisdiction should implement the Recommendations, as they deem appropriate, 
within their existing or developing f rameworks considering each Regulator’s role within those 
existing or developing frameworks, and the outcomes achieved through the operation of the 
frameworks in each jurisdiction. 15 These Recommendations should be considered by IOSCO 
 
15    Given the diversity of operating landscapes across different jurisdictions, the application and/or implementation 
of the 18 Recommendations can take into account the context of specific legal structures prevailing in each 
jurisdiction, as well as the respective mandates of individual regulators where relevant. This can be met where a 
regulator, through its given mandate and the regulatory frameworks it applies, sets out clear principles -based 
expectations for a CASP to meet (which can be supported by regulatory guidance, as appropriate), so as to achieve 
the same regulatory outcomes articulated in this report. 

=== PAGE 19 ===
 
14 
 
 
members as they apply existing regulatory frameworks, or they are granted new powers and/or 
develop new requirements (such new powers and/or new requirements, together “New 
Frameworks”), to crypto and digital assets and related activities in a manner that achieves 
outcomes across jurisdictions consistent with the IOSCO Objectives and Principles for 
Securities Regulation. 
These Recommendations apply to all types of crypto -assets. Accordingly, each of these 
Recommendations also apply to stablecoins. However, additional guidance in relation to 
stablecoin disclosures and the custody of reserve assets is included under Recommen dation 6 
and the Custody and C lient Assets Recommendations to clarify how these Recommendations 
apply additionally to some of the idiosyncratic features or risks presented by stablecoins.   
 
Recommendation 1 – (Common Standards of Regulatory Outcomes) 
 
The IOSCO Standards apply generally to all crypto -assets, their issuers and the provision of 
services in relation to primary issuance, secondary trading and services and activities linked 
thereto. 
As crypto -assets markets and market participants have grown significantly, with market 
participants often acting in non-compliance with existing laws or regulations, in consideration 
of the identified risks in the crypto -asset market and significant ongoing harm to investors, 
regulators are encouraged to analy ze the applicability and adequacy of their regulatory 
frameworks, and the extent to which: 
Regulators should use existing frameworks or New Frameworks to regulate and oversee 
crypto-asset trading, other crypto-asset services, and the issuing, marketing and selling 
of crypto- assets (including as investments), in a manner consistent with IOSCO 
Objectives and Principles for Securities Regulation and relevant supporting IOSCO 
principles, standards, recommendations, and good practices (hereafter “IOSCO 
Standards”). The regulatory approach should seek to achieve regulato ry outcomes for 
investor protection and market integrity that are the same as, or consistent with, those 
that are required in traditional financial markets. 
IOSCO Principles supported: 1 – 7. 

=== PAGE 20 ===
 
15 
 
 
(1) crypto-assets are, or behave like substitutes for, regulated financial instruments,16 and 
(2) investors have substituted other financial instrument investment activities with crypto -
asset trading activities. 
Accordingly, these Recommendations focus on the economic substance of a crypto-asset and its 
substitutability vis-à-vis traditional financial instruments (notwithstanding the crypto -asset’s 
purported potential use case or purpose as stated in supporting marketing and/or distribution 
materials). Regulators are therefore  encouraged to evaluate whether specific requirements 
address or are needed to address the investor protection and market integrity risks associated 
with crypto and digital asset  activities or certain types of crypto-assets and use existing 
regulatory and/or New Frameworks to regulate the services and activities.17  
Application of IOSCO Standards, supported by these Recommendations, will facilitate more 
effective supervision, enforcement and international co -operation regarding CASPs, with the 
goal of promoting regulatory compliance. In addition, co -operation and coordination among 
international bodies such as the FSB and the BIS, and between the SSBs (such as IOSCO, CPMI-
IOSCO, the BCBS and FATF)  on crypto-assets and crypto -asset regulation are important to 
achieve greater regulatory harmonization and minimize regulatory arbitrage. This should help 
facilitate a level playing field between crypto -assets and traditional financial markets and help 
reduce the risk of regulatory arbitrage arising from any differences in how rules apply to, and 
are enforced with respect to, crypto-assets and traditional financial markets. 
IOSCO as a global membership organization18 with deep capital markets regulatory expertise is 
well positioned to achieve these objectives. 
  
 
16  For these purposes, financial instruments include securities and derivative instruments thereof  as well as traded 
commodity derivatives. Depending on the jurisdiction it would also include traded commodities.  
17  As stated in IOSCO Principle 7, the Regulator should have or contribute to a process to review the perimeter of  
regulation regularly. 
18  The IOSCO membership regulates more than 95% of the world's securities markets in more than 130 jurisdictions: 
securities regulators in emerging markets account for 75% of its ordinary membership. 

=== PAGE 21 ===
 
16 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 2: RECOMMENDATIONS ON GOVERNANCE AND DISCLOSURE OF CONFLICTS 
Recommendation 2 – (Organizational Governance) 
 
Although often presenting themselves as “exchanges”, many CASPs typically engage in multiple 
functions and activities under ‘one roof’ – including exchange services operating a trading 
venue, brokerage, market -making and other proprietary trading, offering margin trading, 
custody, clearing, settlement, and services relating to lending and/or staking – whether through 
a single legal entity or a closely affiliated group of legal entities that are part of a wider group 
structure. 
Conflicts arise from engaging in these activities and functions in a vertically integrated manner. 
For example, a CASP that operates an order-matching service has a conflict with its users if it is 
also making markets or otherwise trading as principal against other users in that market.  A 
CASP that allows margin trading may have an incentive to offer margin to an affiliate on terms 
better than it offers to other users. 
Regulators should evaluate whether permitting a CASP to continue to engage in multiple 
activities in a vertically integrated manner gives rise to conflicts of interest that are not capable 
of being mitigated and for which disclosure is ineffective to protect markets and investors, in 
which case they should consider requiring legal segregation of functions  and activities. For 
Regulators should require a CASP to have effective governance and organi zational 
arrangements, commensurate to its activities, including systems, policies and 
procedures that would, amongst other things, address conflicts of interest, including 
those arising from different activities conducted, and services provided, by a CASP or its 
affiliated entities. These conflicts should be effectively identified, managed and 
mitigated. 
A regulator should consider whether certain conflicts are sufficiently acute that they 
cannot be effectively mitigated, including through effective systems and controls, 
disclosure, or prohibited actions, and may require more robust measures such as legal 
segregation of functions and activities, as well as separate registration and regulation 
of certain activities and functions to address this Recommendation. 
IOSCO Principles supported: 8, 23, 31, 33, 34 

=== PAGE 22 ===
 
17 
 
 
example, where a CASP engages in proprietary trading alongside the operation of a trading 
platform, regulators should consider whether the conflicts of interests presented are 
unmanageable within the CASP, and address them through requiring legal segregation of these 
functions and activities, especially where these services are offered to retail clients. This would 
involve splitting particular CASP functions into separate legal entities, with separate board and 
management teams, in addition to operating as distinct functions within a given entity.  
In addition, if considering New Frameworks, regulators should further consider taking steps to 
require CASPs to establish effective conflicts of interest policies, procedures and controls and 
provide public disclosure and reporting, as well as annual effectiveness reviews in light of any 
new activities or services offered. Regulators may also con sider imposing additional 
independence requirements or de-coupling of functions. 
 
Recommendation 3 – (Disclosure of Role, Capacity and Trading conflicts) 
 
If a CASP is engaging in different activities and functions in a crypto-asset trading environment, 
it is important for investors  and regulators to understand the precise activities and functions 
that the CASP is providing, and in what capacity it is acting, in relation to its clients.  
The vertical integration and aggregation of different activities and roles of CASPs makes this 
issue more acute.  Recent events have shown that clients do not understand the differing 
conflicting activities and roles that CASPs are playing in a vertically integrated organization and 
operational structure. For example, it may not be clear to the client of a CASP the capacity in 
which the CASP is acting, particularly if the CASP combines multiple functions , within itself 
and/or through a group of affiliated entities. 
Regulators should require a CASP to have accurately disclosed each role and capacity in 
which it is acting at all times. These disclosures should be made in plain, concise, non- 
technical language, as relevant to the CASP’s clients, prospective clients, the general 
public, and regulators in all jurisdictions where the CASP operates, and into which it 
provides services. Relevant disclosures should take place prior to entering into an 
agreement with a prospective client to provide services, and at any point thereafter 
when such position changes (e.g., if and when the CASP takes on a new, or different, role 
or capacity). 
IOSCO Principles Supported: 31, 34, 35 and 37 

=== PAGE 23 ===
 
18 
 
 
The type of disclosure by a CASP that may be important includes – 
 
• The specific legal entity with whom the client is contracting; 
• The specific services and activities that are being provided by the CASP and the relevant 
terms and conditions, and the role of the CASP when handling or executing clients’ 
orders (e.g., whether as a principal or agent) and when holding in custody, moving, or 
making any use of Client Assets; and 
• If the CASP is effecting transactions in crypto-assets on behalf of its clients, the activities 
that the CASP engages in to effect the transactions, including whether the CASP, or its 
affiliates, are engaging in market -making activities, whether any client trades will be 
made with the CASP or its affiliates on a principal basis, and how the CASP protects 
clients against front running trades; 
If permitted to perform multiple functions in a vertically integrated manner (to the extent the 
regulator permits this combination of activities and functions), a CASP should identify and 
disclose the conflicts that the CASP has when acting in multiple cap acities, the policies and 
procedures to prevent or mitigate such conflicts, and the risks to clients arising from the 
vertically integrated operations (including a lack of protection from ‘self-dealing’ by the CASP, 
among others).  
  

=== PAGE 24 ===
 
19 
 
 
CHAPTER 3: RECOMMENDATIONS ON ORDER HANDLING AND TRADE DISCLOSURES 
(TRADING INTERMEDIARIES VS MARKET OPERATORS) 
 
RECOMMENDATION FOR TRADING INTERMEDIARIES 
 
Recommendation 4 – (Client Order Handling) 
 
Despite common market parlance of collectively referring to CASPs as “exchanges” or “trading 
platforms”, a CASP may not in fact be an exchange (or what is commonly known as a market 
operator). It may instead operate as an intermediary such as a broker or dealer, or both. On the 
basis of “same activity, same risk and same regulation /regulatory outcomes”, specific 
Recommendations should apply to CASPs based on the role that they undertake. 
Information asymmetries and the lack of client disclosures arise due to a number of factors, 
including a lack of transparency by the CASP, and/or non -compliance with existing 
requirements concerning the role and capacity in which it is acting (particularly  if it combines 
multiple activities and functions as described in the previous sections). 
Clients may not understand that the CASP is trading against them and therefore is not acting in 
the clients’ best interests. Clients also may not understand that the CASP may be front-running 
client trades, or that it may not be providing the best price or execution for  the client’s trade. 
These inherent conflicts can give rise to significant investor harm. 
To the extent not already addressed in regulation, regulators should require a  CASP to 
implement systems, policies and procedures that provide for a fair, orderly and timely execution 
of client orders. Such systems, policies and procedures should be aligned with existing relevant 
securities and other regulations (e.g., requirements with respect to precedence of client orders 
and prohibition of front-running). When executing client orders, CASPs should take sufficient 
Regulators should require a CASP, when acting as an agent, to handle all client orders 
fairly and equitably. Regulators should require a CASP to have systems, policies and 
procedures to provide for fair and expeditious execution of client orders, and 
restrictions on front -running client orders. Regulators should require that a CASP 
discloses these systems, policies and procedures to clients and prospective clients, as 
relevant. 
Orders should be handled promptly and accurately recorded. 
 
IOSCO Principles Supported: 29, 31 

=== PAGE 25 ===
 
20 
 
 
steps to obtain the best possible result for their clients taking into account all relevant execution 
factors such as price, costs (both the explicit and implicit market impact costs), speed, likelihood 
of execution and settlement, size, nature or any other consideration relevant to the execution 
of the order.  
When requiring disclosure of such policies and procedures, to the extent not already addressed 
in regulation, regulators may consider requiring the CASP to perform the following in 
accordance with the regulators’ authority: 
• When entering an agreement to provide order execution services to clients, disclose how 
the execution services will be done (e.g., executed on a principal or agency basis); 
• Disclose to regulators and market participants the order -routing procedures and how 
these are applied fairly (e.g., requirements with respect to precedence of client orders 
and prohibitions on front-running); 
• Disclose any arrangements in place with third parties for routing of client orders, 
including arrangements concerning payment for order flow (PFOF), or any other forms 
of inducements; 
• Take reasonable steps to deliver best execution for clients;19 and 
• Disclose any significant differences from order handling rules applied  to the trading of 
financial instruments on public markets in the jurisdiction of the client. 
RECOMMENDATION FOR MARKET OPERATORS 
Recommendation 5 – (Market Operation Requirements) 
 
In many jurisdictions, organized exchanges and trading venues are required to provide public 
trade transparency, for example, by displaying current bid and offer prices and the depth of 
 
19  For these purposes, the term best execution should be understood in a manner consistent with a jurisdiction’s 
requirements and, in jurisdictions where regulatory best execution of orders may not be required, to comprise, at 
a minimum, the ‘fair and expeditious’ execution of the order by a CASP.  
Regulators should require a CASP that operates a market or acts as an intermediary 
(directly or indirectly on behalf of a client) to provide pre- and post-trade disclosures in 
a form and manner that are the same as, or that achieve similar regulatory outcomes 
consistent with, those that are required in traditional financial markets. 
IOSCO Principles Supported: 33, 34, 35 

=== PAGE 26 ===
 
21 
 
 
trading interest. 
Many CASPs are currently operating in non -compliance or in  a manner inconsistent with 
existing regulations that apply to exchanges.  This impedes critical trade transparency for 
transactions occurring on a CASP trading platform. This lack of information gives rise to a non-
transparent market, not only with respect to pricing but also trading activities. 
Regulators should require a CASP acting as a market operator to provide market 
participants/investors with access to an appropriate level of pre-trade and post-trade 
information to  promote transparency, price discovery, and  competition. Regulators should 
consider how to provide investors with useful pre -trade information, including the bids and 
offers available on the CASP to enable crypto-asset investors to know, with a reasonable degree 
of certainty, whether and at what prices they can trade the crypto-assets. 
Post-trade information on the prices, trade time and the volume of all individual transactions 
occurring on a CASP should be made publicly and freely available to the fullest extent 
practicable. 
  

=== PAGE 27 ===
 
22 
 
 
CHAPTER 4: RECOMMENDATIONS  IN RELATION TO LISTING OF CRYPTO-ASSETS 
AND CERTAIN PRIMARY MARKET ACTIVITIES 
Recommendation 6 – (Admission to Trading) 
 
Substantive and procedural listing standards play a key role in investor and market protections 
in traditional markets. These standards for crypto-assets are just as important, as is the public 
disclosure of these standards. 
As with traditional financial markets, the availability of ongoing information about the financial 
instrument (in this case, the crypto -asset) and about the issuer is key to informed decision - 
making and pricing in any trading market. 
In the crypto-asset market today, many crypto -assets are sold without important disclosures 
about the crypto-asset, its main features, the associated risks, and its issuer. Further, there tends 
to be little, if any, verifiable continuous information provided abou t or by the crypto -asset 
issuer. For those jurisdictions where existing rules apply already to crypto -asset issuers, 
including those relating to disclosures and protections against fraudulent statements, the 
crypto-assets are being sold in non-compliance with the law. 
However, as crypto-asset trading activities implicate the same concerns as traditional financial 
markets, initial and ongoing information about crypto-assets and crypto-asset issuers is 
essential to avoid information asymmetries, to help protect against fraud, and to provide 
transparency to investors trading crypto-assets. 
To address these issues from the trading platform standpoint, regulators should require a CASP 
to adopt substantive and procedural listing standards relating to crypto-assets and their issuers 
and describe the quantitative and/or qualitative standards that the CASP uses to assess a crypto- 
asset when approving the admission to trading, permitting it to continue to be admitted to 
trading, and standards for when its listing may be removed. The disclosures, as relevant, should 
Regulators should require a CASP to establish, maintain and appropriately disclose to 
the public their standards— including systems, policies and procedures— for listing / 
admitting crypto assets  to trading on its market, as well as those for removing crypto-
assets from trading. These standards should include the substantive and procedural 
standards for making such determinations. 
IOSCO Principles Supported: 16, 17 

=== PAGE 28 ===
 
23 
 
 
also include the procedures used to make those assessments. 
In connection with the type of information that should be made available initially, and on an 
ongoing basis, about the crypto-asset, regulators may consider requiring the types of disclosures 
that apply when listing any financial instrument for trading on a traditional exchange. 
This information would typically include, for example (but is not limited to), a comprehensive 
description of the crypto-asset, information about ownership and control of the crypto-asset, as 
well as full information about the issuer and its business, including audited financial statements, 
and information about the issuer’s management team. 
Regulators should require a CASP to also adequately disclose relevant information, including 
(but not limited to): 
• The risks associated with the crypto-asset; 
• Trading history of the crypto-asset, including volumes and prices; 
• Operational description of the crypto-asset, including any incidents of manipulation 
or security failures; 
• Token ownership concentration and any options and/or lock -ups for insiders and 
affiliates; 
• Protocols for transfers; and 
• The CASP’s treatment of the client crypto-assets and their respective rights and 
entitlements when events such as, but not limited to, hard forks and airdrops occur. 
These disclosures should apply and are important, even where there is no clearly identifiable 
entity issuing a crypto-asset. 
CASP Disclosures about Stablecoins  
CASPs that list stablecoins should consider additional information that should be disclosed to 
customers. To address this, Recommendation 6  should be read with  the following guidance 
in relation to stablecoins. Regulators should consider requiring a CASP to disclose, as relevant: 
1. The terms of the stablecoin including: 
(a) what the stablecoin represents, including the  reserve assets, how the stablecoin is pegged 
and the reference asset for the peg (e.g., to a single fiat currency, a basket of currencies, etc.); 
(b) the mechanism to support the peg, including whether the stablecoin is fully backed or 

=== PAGE 29 ===
 
24 
 
 
supported by a reserve of assets or specific types of assets; 
(c) the mechanisms for creating and redeeming the stablecoin; 
(d) the rights of any and all stablecoin holders to present the stablecoin for redemption to the 
issuer, to the CASP or to other third parties, and any potential or existing claims against the 
stablecoin issuer and/or against the reserve assets; 
(e) whether a stablecoin holder has an enforceable direct claim against the issuer of the 
stablecoin and/or its reserve assets; and 
(f) whether and how the stablecoin holder can exchange their stablecoin, in a timely manner, 
for underlying fiat currency, and any fees that may be levied in respect of this.  
2. Risks relating to the stablecoin and stablecoin issuer including: 
(a) whether there is segregation of reserve assets from the stablecoin issuer’s own assets, 
protecting the stablecoin holder in event of the issuer’s insolvency or bankruptcy; 
(b) how the reserve assets are safeguarded, who is holding the reserve assets and in what 
capacity, whether reserve assets are invested in other assets and the investment policy, along 
with other disclosures set out in Recommendation 14; 
(c) what potential or actual conflicts of interest exist between the CASP and the stablecoin 
issuer and how those conflicts of interest are addressed; 
(d) the regulatory status of the stablecoin in jurisdictions in which it is used; 
(e) public transparency about the stablecoin issuer’s reserve; and 
(f) whether the issuer has provided an independently audited and complete set of financial 
statements that includes the reserve assets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 30 ===
 
25 
 
 
Recommendation 7 – (Management of Primary Markets Conflicts) 
 
Currently, CASPs engage in a multitude of activities in a vertically integrated manner, many of 
which are being done in non-compliance with applicable law. Among the activities that CASPs 
currently engage in are listing and trading crypto-assets that they issue or those of crypto-asset 
issuers in which they have, or acquire, a material interest. In these cases, CASPs have both a 
strong incentive and opportunity to influence the price discovery process, particularly when also 
acting as a market maker in the relevant crypto -asset. Such activities pose significant conflicts 
of interest and can give rise to significant investor harm. 
A CASP engaging in these activities can have a significant economic interest in the success of 
the trading and related activities involving the crypto -asset. A CASP or an affiliate that has 
invested in a prospective enterprise and owns and trades the crypto -assets issued by that 
enterprise could have access to material non-public information and could have an incentive to 
use this information when engaging in trading activities. Even absent the misuse of any material 
inside information, the CASP may have an incentive to promote trading of the crypto-asset even 
if doing so might not be suitable for or in the best interests of its clients. 
Regulators should consider requirements designed to mitigate these effects. The approach could 
include, for example, prohibitions on the CASP listing and/or trading crypto-assets in which the 
CASP has a material interest. 
  
Regulators should require a CASP to manage and mitigate conflicts of interest 
surrounding the issuance, trading and listing of crypto-assets. 
This should include appropriate disclosure requirements and may necessitate a 
prohibition on a CASP listing and / or facilitating trading in, its own proprietary crypto- 
assets, or any crypto -assets in which the CASP, or an affiliated entity, may have a 
material interest. 
IOSCO Principles Supported: 29, 31, 33, 34 

=== PAGE 31 ===
 
26 
 
 
CHAPTER 5: RECOMMENDATIONS TO ADDRESS ABUSIVE BEHAVIORS 
 
Recommendation 8 – (Fraud and Market Abuse) 
 
Regulation of traditional financial markets prohibits abusive practices that undermine market 
integrity. Three commonly observed types of abusive practices include (but are not necessarily 
limited to): 
i. Unlawful disclosure of material, non -public information – Disclosing or ‘tipping’ 
inside information, except where strictly necessary and under appropriate conditions, 
allows those individuals to profit from this information and gives certain market 
participants an unfair advantage over others. 
ii. Insider dealing – Trading based on ‘inside’ or material non-public information creates 
an unfair advantage due to the insiders privileged position at the expense of others. 
iii. Market manipulation – Behaviors that create a false or misleading signal as to the 
supply, demand or price of a financial asset or otherwise impacts trading in the asset 
though any other form of deception or contrivance. 
Crypto-asset markets should be regulated in a manner consistent with the aim of preventing the 
same (as well as any idiosyncratic) types of fraudulent and manipulative practices that exist in 
traditional financial markets.  In some jurisdictions, these types of fraudulent and abusive 
practices in crypto -asset markets may already be covered by existing regulatory frameworks. 
New Frameworks should explore ways to impose such prohibitions, seeking alignment and 
consistency of outcomes when tackling market abuse in both traditional financial markets and 
crypto-asset markets. 
Regulators should bring enforcement actions against offences involving fraud and 
market abuse in crypto -asset markets, taking into consideration the extent to which 
they are not already covered by existing regulatory frameworks.  These offences should 
cover all relevant fraudulent and abusive practices such as market manipulation, insider 
dealing and unlawful disclosure of inside information; money laundering / terrorist 
financing; issuing false and misleading statements; and misappropriation of funds. 
IOSCO Principles Supported: 31, 33, 34, 35, 36 

=== PAGE 32 ===
 
27 
 
 
Regulators should review their offence provisions and apply them as needed to deal with any 
potential gaps and new market developments.20 
Recommendation 9 (Market Surveillance) 
 
Market surveillance is an important tool for deterring and detecting fraudulent or manipulative 
activity in traditional financial markets, and market surveillance for crypto-asset markets should 
provide a similar level of protection. 
As with traditional financial markets, regulators should consider – to the extent that existing 
frameworks do not already apply – the following when evaluating market surveillance tools, 
systems and controls that should apply to CASPs: 
 The timeliness of surveillance of transactions and orders to deter and detect market 
abuse. 
 Controls to take prompt remedial actions upon discovery of market abuse on their 
platform (e.g., suspension of trading). 
 Systems for sharing information related to suspected market abuse between relevant 
crypto-asset markets. 
 Systems to detect and report suspicious transactions and orders to the relevant body. 
 Systems to identify malicious actors from a cyber, financial crime and market integrity 
standpoint. 
 Requirements, in line with FATF recommendations for AML -CTF, including (amongst 
other things) Customer Due Diligence Requirements. 
Regulators should consider requiring proportionate additional systems and controls, based on 
the nature, scale and complexity of the CASP’s business. This could, for example, include the 
development of appropriate systems by CASPs to effectively monitor media (including social 
 
20  It is worth noting here that while offence provisions will apply to CASPs, social media personalities or so -called 
‘finfluencers’ and those providing investment recommendations will generally also come within the scope of 
relevant market manipulation provi sions and therefore potentially be liable, both civilly and criminally, when 
engaging in these types of abusive practices.  
Regulators should have market surveillance requirements applying to each CASP, so 
that market abuse risks are effectively mitigated. 
IOSCO Principles Supported: 31, 33, 34, 36 

=== PAGE 33 ===
 
28 
 
 
media) for manipulative practices (i.e., information sharing on prospective listings on telegram, 
signal, etc.). As appropriate, regulatory authorities should also consider monitoring relevant 
media, including social media.  
In evaluating whether market surveillance tools are effective, regulators should consider how to 
assure, amongst other things, oversight and verification of on-chain and off-chain transactions, 
including those transactions occurring directly on a CASP through the internal recordkeeping 
of ownership changes in omnibus accounts. 21 Regulators should  evaluate different ways to 
engage in such oversight and verification, including requiring the detailed reporting of so-called 
‘off-chain activity’ or settling of transactions on the internal books and records of the CASP, not 
reflected on the public ledger or blockchain.  
Moreover, effective market surveillance requires greater oversight of on -chain and off -chain 
data across platforms. Regulators should make efforts to improve cross -market data 
transparency and regulatory reporting, supported by high-quality and comparable data, similar 
to the data that is now available in traditional financial markets .22 As this is currently a 
continuing challenge in crypto -asset markets, regulators should consider how to address this 
issue, which may include market-led solutions and/or regulatory requirements placed on CASPs 
to report relevant data. In addition, IOSCO intends to (1) conduct work amongst its members 
going forward to promote the development of data standards that could help to improve the 
availability, and improved access to better and more homogenized international data sets,23 and 
alongside this (2) encourage its members to develop appropriate solutions within their 
jurisdictions to help further these objectives. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21  For the avoidance of doubt, this should apply to transactions arranged or executed by CASPs that provide 
custodial wallets as well as to those that do not. 
22  For example, the same pre-  and post- trade price transparency, where appropriate, transaction reporting data, 
number of accounts, value of the crypto-assets held in the accounts. 
23  Consideration could be given to existing approaches like the efforts of LEI and IOSCO, FSB, LEI ROC, and CPMI-
IOSCO post financial crisis that aimed at data standardization in traditional financial markets.  
 

=== PAGE 34 ===
 
29 
 
 
 
Recommendation 10 (Management of Material Non-Public Information) 
 
As in traditional financial markets, a lack of controls on material non -public and market 
sensitive information, and a lack of restrictions on inappropriate use of such information, may 
result in manipulative market practices or insider trading. 
This may be exacerbated by the cross-border nature of the crypto -asset market, for example, 
where a particular crypto -asset may be admitted on several trading platforms across 
jurisdictions, heightening the risk of regulatory arbitrage. 
Regulators should thus require a CASP to put in place systems, policies and procedures around 
the management of material non -public information and to restrict inappropriate use of such 
information. 
These could include the following: 
 
• A process for the CASP to identify and classify information that is material non -public 
and market sensitive. Examples include, but are not limited to, information regarding 
the CASP’s client orders and the planned listing of a particular crypto-asset; 
• System and controls to restrict the access of material non-public and market sensitive 
information to a controlled list of persons on a ‘need-to-know’ basis, for example, via the 
use of ethical walls or information barriers; 
• Periodic review of the list of persons who have access to material non-public and market 
sensitive information; 
• Restrictions against the sharing and the use of material non-public and market sensitive 
information by the CASP and list of persons; 
• Processes for monitoring for potential breach of the CASP’s systems, policies and 
Regulators should require a CASP to put in place systems, policies and procedures 
around t he management of material non -public information, including, where 
relevant, information related to whether a crypto -asset will be admitted or listed for 
trading on its platform and  information related to client orders, trade execution, and 
personally identifying information. 
IOSCO Principles Supported: 31, 34, 36 

=== PAGE 35 ===
 
30 
 
 
procedures policies regarding material non -public and market sensitive information, 
including, processes to facilitate whistleblowing and the reporting of potential breaches 
to the relevant authorities. 
  

=== PAGE 36 ===
 
31 
 
 
CHAPTER 6: RECOMMENDATION ON CROSS-BORDER CO-OPERATION 
Recommendation 11 – (Enhanced Regulatory Co-operation) 
 
Many CASPs offer services from offshore financial centers. CASPs often structure and present 
themselves as having little or no visible substantive presence within any jurisdiction, thus 
exacerbating supervisory and enforcement challenges that may arise. The provision of services 
into a jurisdiction by a CASP may nevertheless implicate that jurisdiction’s laws.24  
The differing approaches as well as the attempt by CASPs to avoid regulation or operate in non- 
compliance with existing regulation raise significant issues. These issues significantly increase 
the risk of  regulatory arbitrage, reduce the ability of jurisdictions to enforce their laws, and 
depending on the laws of particular jurisdictions, potentially raise the prospect of jurisdictional 
borders hindering the effectiveness of the authorization and supervision process.  They also 
enable money laundering risks and facilitate financial crime, and reduce the ability of regulators 
to effectively detect and enforce against these activities. 
IOSCO is already active in tackling issues related to day -to-day cross-border co -operation 
between authorities. Crypto-asset related information requests are already captured by IOSCO’s 
Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding (MMoU) and Enhanced  Multilateral 
Memorandum of Understanding (EMMoU), premised on the underlying principle  of “same 
activity, same risk, same regulation/regulatory outcomes”. In tandem with the overarching 
MMoU and EMMoU, regulators should take proactive steps, bilateral or multilateral, to enable 
 
24  It is recogni zed that the issues of international co -operation between regulators in view of the cross -border 
provision of crypto -asset services overlaps with issues being addressed in the separate proposal for a 20th 
anniversary review of the effectiveness of the IOSCO MMOU and the IOSCO Retail Market Condu ct Task Force 
recommendations for further work on unauthorised provision of financial services. 
Regulators, in recognition of the cross-border nature of crypto-asset issuance, trading, 
and other activities, should have the ability to share information and cooperate with 
regulators and relevant authorities in other jurisdictions with respect to such activities. 
This includes having available co-operation arrangements and/or other mechanisms to 
engage with regulators and relevant authorities  in other jurisdictions. These should  
accommodate the authori zation and on -going supervision of regulated CASPs,  and 
enable broad assistance in enforcement investigations and related proceedings. 
IOSCO Principles Supported: 13, 14, 15 

=== PAGE 37 ===
 
32 
 
 
sharing of information for effective supervision and enforcement. 
Beyond the MMoU and EMMoU, regulators should also share information with one another 
and, where relevant, with law enforcement authorities, and work together to stop abusive and 
criminal behaviors, including financial crime and money laundering, and to mit igate risks to 
investors. 
In addition, amongst wider measures to enhance cross-border supervision of the market, 
regulators should consider bilateral and/or multilateral co-operation arrangements beyond the 
enforcement context, as appropriate, such as supervisory colleges 25 or networks,26 or regional 
arrangements,27 or other forms of cross-jurisdictional co -operation, to support rigorous and 
effective ongoing supervision of CASPs operating across multiple jurisdictions. 
  
 
25  For example, IOSCO has mentioned potential consideration of supervisory colleges in connection with crypto -
asset platforms. See: Lessons Learned from the Use of Global Supervisory Colleges, Final Report, IOSCO (January 
2022), pp. 28-30, available at https://www.iosco.org/library/pubdocs/pdf/IOSCOPD696.pdf. 
26  See: Principles Regarding Cross-Border Supervisory Co-operation, Final Report, IOSCO (May 2010), pp. 31, 36-37, 
available at https://www.iosco.org/library/pubdocs/pdf/IOSCOPD322.pdf. 
27  For example, IOSCO APRC (Asia-Pacific Regional Committee) established the APRC Supervisory MMoU, which 
is the first IOSCO framework undertaken as part of efforts to strengthen supervisory co -operation in the Asia -
Pacific region. The APRC Supervisory MMoU enables signatories to exchange broader supervisory information 
than under the MMoU, that is enforcement-focussed.  

=== PAGE 38 ===
 
33 
 
 
CHAPTER 7: RECOMMENDATIONS ON CUSTODY OF CLIENT MONIES AND ASSETS 
Recommendation 12 – (Overarching Custody Recommendation) 
 
The proper custody of Client Assets 28 is reliant on the strength of a service provider’s systems, 
policies and procedures as well as the legal arrangements governing the custody relationship.  
Regulators should require a CASP to ensure that Client Assets are adequately protected at all 
times, including when placed with a third party chosen by the CASP, specifically aiming to 
minimize the risk of loss or misuse. 
As is the case with traditional financial assets, regulators should set out expectations that the 
CASP maintain accurate and up -to-date records and accounts of Client Assets that readily 
establish the precise nature, amount, location and ownership status o f Client Assets and the 
clients for whom the assets are held. The records should also be maintained in such a way that 
they may be used as an audit trail. 
A number of different methods and structures can be used by a CASP to hold Client Assets 
taking into account risk management, liquidity and efficiency considerations and trade-offs. 
IOSCO is not prescribing specific expectations or thresholds regarding, for example, the holding 
of crypto -asset private keys in “hot” vs “cold” vs “warm” wallets. 29 When considering the 
maintenance of private keys, safety of Client Assets should be prioritized. For the purposes of 
this Recommendation, non-custodial wallets are not considered.   
Ultimately, sufficient, reliable and clear information should be made available to clients  and 
any third parties (for example insolvency practitioners, regulators and the courts) to enable 
them to understand the rights to any Client Assets , including the ability for clients to receive 
their Client Assets back, or an equivalent value thereof, should they suffer losses, for instance, 
due to the CASP entering an insolvency process.30  
 
28  For these purpose, “Client Assets” cover both money and crypto-assets held for, and on behalf of, a client. 
29  Further operational and technological considerations are set out under Recommendation 17. 
30  The outcomes for clients’ rights to their assets depend on jurisdictional application of custody and trust 
arrangements; a CASP should therefore provide its clients with appropriate and accurate disclosure on their 
respective rights upon the CASP entering into an insolvency process. 
Regulators should apply the IOSCO Recommendations Regarding the Protection of 
Client Assets  when considering the application of existing frameworks, or New 
Frameworks, covering CASPs that hold or safeguard Client Assets.  

=== PAGE 39 ===
 
34 
 
 
Recommendation 13 – (Segregation and Handling of Client Monies and Assets) 
 
Taking into account the technological means by which crypto-assets are created and held, laws 
and court decisions, and jurisprudence  in certain jurisdictions might not yet have evolved in 
ways that provide CASP clients with legal certainty regarding protection of their crypto-assets. 
Regulators should nonetheless require a CASP to segregate Client Assets from their proprietary 
assets, as well as the assets of any affiliate or service provider held by the CASPs, and place Client 
Assets in trust or in segregated bankruptcy remote accounts (or provide equivalent protection 
through legal or accounting mechanisms recognized in the relevant jurisdiction), so that they 
are separate and distinct from the CASP’s own assets/estate. 
Regulators should require a CASP to specify how Client Assets are protected against loss or 
misuse and how such assets are segregated as Client Assets that are not subject to the claims of 
the CASP’s creditors. 
Where the CASP expressly takes legal and/or beneficial title to Client Assets (for purposes, e.g., 
of lending, re-use or re-hypothecation of the crypto-assets), the CASP will cease to hold those 
Client Assets in trust for the client. The CASP should obtain the client’s explicit prior consent 
to such arrangements. The CASP should provide clear, concise and non-technical disclosure of 
these arrangements, sufficient for the client to understand that Client Assets  are not held in 
custody and might not be returned should the CASP enter insolvency. 
Regulators should impose specific measures in situations where the CASP takes legal and/or 
beneficial ownership of Client Assets. These requirements should include, for example: 
- receiving prior explicit consent from the client for the assets, for example, to be lent out, 
re-used or re-hypothecated; 
- providing clients with clear, concise and non-technical, prior disclosure about the risks 
of these types of activities, including the potential loss of their entire crypto -asset 
holdings; 
In all cases, whether a CASP is acting as a custodian holding Client Assets in trust, or in another 
Regulators should require a CASP to place Client Assets in trust, or to otherwise 
segregate them from the CASP’s proprietary assets. 
IOSCO Principles Supported: 31, 32, 38 

=== PAGE 40 ===
 
35 
 
 
segregated arrangement, regulators should consider requiring CASPs to: 
- maintain accurate and up-to-date records and accounts of Client Assets at all times that 
readily establish the precise nature, amount, location and ownership status of the assets, 
and identify the clients for whom they are held; and 
- maintain records and accounts that enable it, on a frequent and regular basis, to specify 
each client’s rights and the CASP’s obligations to each client with respect to Client 
Assets. 
Recommendation 14 – (Disclosure of Custody and Safekeeping Arrangements) 
Where a CASP is providing custody services to a client, regulators should require the CASP to 
clearly disclose, as relevant, all  terms and conditions attached to the custodial activity being 
provided, such as the safeguards in place to provide for adequate protection of Client Assets from 
losses or insolvency of the CASP. 31 Regulators also should require the CASP to identify how the 
 
31  With respect to this recommendation, regulators should carefully consider how to ensure that the disclosure 
requirements do not require a CASP to reveal technical information that exposes it to heightened 
cybersecurity risks. 
 
Regulators should require a CASP to disclose, as relevant, in  clear, concise and 
non-technical language to clients: 
i. How Client Assets are held, and the arrangements for safeguarding these assets 
and/or their private keys: 
ii. the use (if any) of an independent custodian, sub-custodian or related party 
custodian; 
iii. the extent to which Client Assets are aggregated or pooled within omnibus client 
accounts, the rights of individual clients with respect to the aggregated or pooled 
assets, and the risks of loss arising from any pooling or aggregating activities; 
iv. Risks arising from the CASP’s handling or moving of Client Assets, whether 
directly or indirectly, such as through a cross-chain bridge; and 
v. Full and accurate information on the obligations and responsibilities of a CASP 
with respect to the use of Client Assets, as well as private keys, including the 
terms for their restitution, and on the risks involved. 
IOSCO Principles Supported: 31, 32, 38 

=== PAGE 41 ===
 
36 
 
 
CASP protects the Client Assets, including from the claims of the CASP’s creditors. 
Where the CASP enters into a sub-custody arrangement with a third party, the disclosure should 
also detail the terms of these contractual arrangements and any additional risks that these might 
create for the client, as relevant. 
For example, the regulator should require the CASP to disclose to its clients whenever Client 
Assets are to be held or placed in a foreign jurisdiction, as well as the name of such jurisdiction, 
and thus may become subject to the client asset protections and/or insolvency regimes of that 
foreign jurisdiction. 
Custody for reserve assets of stablecoins 
How reserve assets are held by the stablecoin issuer or others is of paramount importance, as is 
the fact that these reserve assets remain sufficient at all times to cover redemption of all 
outstanding stablecoins. The custody and client asset Recommendations should therefore be 
read, as relevant, as  referring to custody of reserve assets backing stablecoins, in addition to 
Client Assets. Given that a large part of the market for stablecoins is conducted through CASPs, 
the disclosures set out above in Recommendation 14, as relevant, should be included in  any 
disclosures to clients by CASPs.  
 
Recommendation 15 – (Client Asset Reconciliation and Independent Assurance) 
 
Regulators should require a CASP to have systems, policies, and procedures to conduct 
regular and frequent reconciliations of Client Assets subject to appropriate independent 
assurance. 
IOSCO Principles Supported: 31, 32, 38 
To support Recommendation 13 on the segregation and handling of Client Assets, a CASP should 
maintain appropriate books and records to track and record transactions and ownership of 
Client Assets. The CASP should conduct regular and frequent reconciliation of Client Assets on 
a client-by-client basis, to identify and resolve any discrepancies in a timely manner. In doing 
so, CASPs should also take into account both relevant off-chain and on-chain records. 
 
Regulators should require that each CASP implement measures to support reconciliations of 

=== PAGE 42 ===
 
37 
 
 
Client Assets, which may include (but not be limited to): 
• policies and procedures governing the process and controls for Client Asset 
reconciliation; 
• conducting reconciliations on a regular and frequent basis; 
• procedures to reconcile off-chain and on-chain records; 
• providing clients with a statement of account, comprising information on their Client 
Assets and transactions; 
• engaging an independent auditor, on an annual basis,32 to: 
o conduct an independent audit of the CASP’s Client Asset environment; and 
o issue an internal control report, including an opinion as to whether the CASP’s 
controls related to custodial services —including the systems, processes and 
procedures for safeguarding of Client Assets —are designed and operating 
effectively; and 
o conduct an independent review of the adequacy of CASPs’ policies and 
procedures. 
Regulators should have procedures to evaluate audits and independent reviews, investigate 
instances where these reviews contain qualifications and/or adverse findings, and take such 
action as they deem appropriate. 
Recommendation 16: (Securing client money and assets) 
 
 
 
Where a CASP does not have appropriate arrangements to safeguard Client Assets, this can 
increase the risk of loss, misuse, and delay in returning Client Assets, particularly in the case of 
 
32  These engagements should be performed by an independent auditor to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the subject matter information is free from material misstatement (e.g., with respect to the audit), 
or whether the CASP complied with the specified requirements, in all material respects (e.g., with respect to 
the internal control report). 
 
Regulators should require a CASP to adopt appropriate systems, policies and 
procedures to mitigate the risk of loss, theft or inaccessibility of Client Assets. 
IOSCO Principles Supported: 31, 32, 38 

=== PAGE 43 ===
 
38 
 
 
an insolvency. 
CASPs ostensibly operating as custodians have been hacked in the past and/or have lost the 
means to access Client Assets they were responsible for safeguarding. In particular, loss of a 
private key or wallet could mean that recovery of the corresponding Cl ient Assets becomes 
extremely difficult, if not impossible. 
Proper custody of Client Assets is reliant on the strength of a CASP’s policies, procedures and 
controls, including the means of access (such as private keys and wallets). However, a CASP is 
holding Client Assets, it should maintain adequate policies, procedures and arrangements to 
minimize risk of loss, theft or inaccessibility to Client Assets. 
These policies and procedures should recognize the risks associated with different wallet types 
(e.g., hot, warm and cold). 
Regulators should consider whether and how a CASP can compensate its clients under 
applicable law, in the event of theft or loss of Client Assets. Depending on the jurisdiction, this 
could include requiring a CASP to hold sufficient assets to compensate clients (e.g., additional 
own funds and/or guarantee). 
  

=== PAGE 44 ===
 
39 
 
 
CHAPTER 8: RECOMMENDATION TO ADDRESS OPERATIONAL AND TECHNOLOGICAL 
RISKS 
Recommendation 17 – (Management and disclosure of Operational and Technological 
Risks) 
A CASP faces operational and technological risks similar to those faced by traditional financial 
institutions.33 
However, crypto-asset activities may introduce some unique and additional operational and 
technological risks, including  those arising from the underlying DLT used  for the issuance, 
trading and provision of services related to crypto-assets and the deployment of smart contracts, 
forks and use of cross-chain bridges.  The disclosures contemplated by this Recommendation 
should address these risks, which are idiosyncratic to CASPs.34 Regulators should require a CASP 
to put in place sufficient measures to address cyber and system resiliency.  These measures 
should be reviewed at least annually and updated to help ensure that they remain strong and 
robust. Such measures could include: 
• identifying the relevant operational and technological risks which the CASP faces and 
requiring the CASP to adopt appropriate processes and procedures to address such 
risks. 
• implementing operational and technology risk management framework and 
 
33  For example, see IOSCO (2019), Cyber Task Force Final Report  and see CPMI-IOSCO (2016), Guidance on cyber 
resilience for financial market infrastructures (FMI).  
34  With respect to this recommendation, regulators should carefully consider how to ensure that the disclosure 
requirements do not require a CASP to reveal technical information that exposes it to heightened cybersecurity 
risks. 
Regulators should require a CASP to comply with requirements pertaining to 
operational and technology risk and resilience in accordance with IOSCO’s 
Recommendations and Standards.  
Regulators should require a CASP to disclose in a clear, concise and non -technical 
manner, all material sources of operational and technological risks  and have 
appropriate risk management frameworks (e.g.,  people, processes, systems and 
controls) in place to manage and mitigate such risks. 
 
IOSCO Principles Supported: 31, 32, 33, 34, 38 
 

=== PAGE 45 ===
 
40 
 
 
conducting at least an annual independent audit from a reputable third party. 
• implementing frequent, rigorous code audits to mitigate cyber security risks. 
 
 
  

=== PAGE 46 ===
 
41 
 
 
CHAPTER 9: RETAIL DISTRIBUTION RECOMMENDATION 
 
Recommendation 18 – (Retail Client Appropriateness and Disclosure) 
 
Crypto-asset markets differ significantly from traditional financial markets in having a high 
proportion of retail participants directly accessing CASP trading platforms. Many crypto-assets 
and CASPs are operating in non-compliance with applicable law in some jurisdictions, where 
important retail client protections already exist. 
Notwithstanding the applicability of existing regulatory frameworks – considering the cross - 
border nature of these activities and direct access business models – there are significant 
additional risks of mis-selling and exposure to fraud in crypto-asset markets, including difficulty 
in seeking recourse against CASPs and other market participants. 
In developing New Frameworks, regulators should ensure, where within their remit, that 
promotions of crypto -assets are appropriate for retail clients. Similarly, where within their 
remit, they should impose requirements on CASPs covering suitability/approp riateness 
assessments of clients and potential clients. 35 Further, regulators should consider how to 
 
35   If a prospective client does not demonstrate sufficient knowledge, the CASP should not permit trading of 
crypto- assets. 
 
Regulators should require a CASP to operate in a manner consistent with IOSCO’s 
Standards regarding interactions and dealings with retail clients.  
Regulators should require, or work with other relevant authorities to require, that 
all promotions and marketing of crypto -assets to retail clients accurately and 
sufficiently disclose the product and service provided as well as the associated risks 
in a manner that is fair, clear, and not misleading.  
Regulators should require a CASP to implement adequate systems, policies and 
procedures, including for providing disclosures, in relation to onboarding new 
clients, and as part of its ongoing services to existing clients.  This should include 
assessing the appropriateness and/or suitability of particular crypto-asset products 
and services offered to each retail client. 
 
IOSCO Principles Supported: 16, 17, 23 
 

=== PAGE 47 ===
 
42 
 
 
evaluate CASP marketing materials and advertising about crypto -asset trading generally or for 
particular crypto-assets. 
Promotions to retail clients, where allowed, must not be misleading when relating to the crypto-
asset or service being promoted, and any statement made about the crypto-asset or service must 
be accurate and verified by the CASP. Promotions should be design ed to promote a clear 
understanding by retail clients of what they are buying, such as the key facts and relevant risks 
around the crypto-asset or service provided (including, for example, the rate of return, or the 
mechanism for maintaining stability in the case of a stablecoin). This should apply irrespective 
of how, or on which platform, the promotion is made, which includes traditional, online and 
social media, as well as digital engagement practices used for targeted marketings, gamification 
and digital nudging.     
If suitability/appropriateness assessments are used by a CASP, regulators should require that the 
assessments are well constructed and robust. In particular, such assessment should not mislead 
clients into believing that they sufficiently understand the operations of crypto -asset markets 
and the related risks.  
In addition to clear, concise, non-technical and accurate disclosures that should be provided on 
the key features and risks related to the crypto -assets and services offered by a CASP, any fee, 
commission or incentive , directly or indirectly charged  to the client , should also be clearly 
disclosed. 
Regulators should consider requiring CASPs to disclose any commercial arrangements with 
legal or natural persons providing investment advice on crypto -assets admitted to trading on 
their platform or in which they have a material interest. This extends to any individuals who 
may be commissioned to rec ommend investment in particular crypto -assets on media 
(including social media). In some jurisdictions, the investment advice frameworks apply to 
recommendations made by service providers, including so -called ‘finfluencers’ and other 
intermediaries. 
Regulators should require CASPs to have an efficient and effective mechanism to address client 
complaints. Regulators should also take steps to tackle the risks posed to retail investors by the 
prevalence of poor marketing practices. This should be done directly where a particular IOSCO 
member has that mandate, or otherwise in coordination with other domestic regulators who are 
responsible for issues related to media and advertising (such as advertising standard setters and 

=== PAGE 48 ===
 
43 
 
 
consumer watchdogs). 
  

=== PAGE 49 ===
 
44 
 
 
Annex A – Glossary of Relevant Terms and Definitions 
This Glossary applies to this report only. It uses technical, non- legal definitions included in 
the body of this report and (other relevant IOSCO publications). For a small sub-set of terms 
(not defined in IOSCO publications), the Glossary definitions of other Standard Setting 
Bodies have been employed for consistency. The Glossary is of limited scope and in no way 
attempts to set out legal definitions that could create opportunities for regulatory arbitrage, 
and which remain matters for individual jurisdictions to decide upon. 
Blockchain 
A form of distributed ledger in which details of transactions are held in the ledger in the form of 
blocks of information. A block of new information is attached into the chain of pre -existing blocks 
via a computerized process by which transactions are validated. 
Crypto-asset 
An asset, sometimes called a “digital asset,” that is issued and/or transferred using distributed ledger 
or blockchain technology. Crypto-assets include, but are not limited to, so-called “virtual currencies,” 
“coins,” and “tokens.” To the extent digital assets rely on cryptographic protocols, these types of assets 
are commonly referred to as “crypto-assets.” 
Crypto-Asset Service Provider (CASP)  
A service provider that conducts a wide range of activities relating to crypto-assets, including but not 
limited to, admission to trading, trading (as agent or principal), operating a market, custody, and 
other activities such as services relating to lending/staking of crypto -assets and the promotion and 
distribution of crypto-assets on behalf of others. 
Smart Contract 
Code deployed in a distributed ledger technology environment that is self-executing and can be used 
to carry out certain “if/then” type computations. The execution of a smart contract is triggered when 
that smart contract is “called” by a transaction on the blockchain. 
 
Stablecoin 
A crypto-asset that aims to maintain a stable value relative to a specified asset, or a pool or basket of 
assets. 

=== PAGE 50 ===
 
45 
 
 
Wallet  
An application or device for storing the cryptographic keys providing access to crypto -assets. A hot 
wallet is connected to the internet and usually takes the form of software for the user, while a cold 
wallet is a hardware that is not connected to the internet and stores the cryptographic keys.  
Custodial wallet  
A crypto-asset service where a user’s crypto -assets and/or means of access (e.g., private keys or a 
shard of a private key) are kept under custody by a service provider on behalf of the user. The user 
interacts with the service provider, rather than the blockchain, to manage its crypto -assets. A 
custodial wallet is also known as a “hosted wallet”.  
Non-custodial wallet  
Software or hardware that stores cryptographic keys for a user, making the user’s crypto -assets 
accessible only to the user, and allowing the user to interact directly with the blockchain and the 
blockchain-based finance applications. A non-custodial wallet is also known as an “unhosted wallet”. 
  

=== PAGE 51 ===
 
46 
 
 
Annex B – Feedback Statement 
On 23 May 2023, IOSCO consulted on a set of 18 policy recommendations. The feedback period 
closed on 31 July 2023, with a total of 80 responses received from a range of stakeholders falling 
into these broad categories: 
1. Industry Association (28) 
2. CASP (11) 
3. Regulatory Authority (9) 
4. Traditional Finance Entity (8) 
5. Blockchain Analytics and Intelligence (7) 
6. Blockchain Governance (5) 
7. Think Tank (4) 
8. SRO (3) 
9. Natural Person (2) 
10. Payments Provider (2) 
11. Legal Advisor (1) 
 
The IOSCO Board is grateful for the responses and took them into consideration when 
preparing the Final Report with Policy Recommendations for Crypto and Digital Asset (CDA) 
Markets (Final Report). The rest of this section summari zes the replies received on the 
consultation questions. 
  

=== PAGE 52 ===
 
47 
 
 
Policy Recommendations for Crypto and Digital Asset Markets: 
 
1. Chapter 1 – Overarching Recommendation Addressed to All Regulators 
Recommendation 1 (Common Standards of Regulatory Outcomes):  Regulators should 
use existing frameworks or New Frameworks to regulate and oversee crypto -asset trading, 
other crypto-asset services, and the issuing, marketing and selling of crypto-assets (including 
as investments), in a manner consistent with IOSCO Objectives and Principles for Securities 
Regulation and relevant supporting IOSCO standards, Recommendations, and good practices 
(hereafter “IOSCO Standards”). The regulatory approach should seek to achieve regulatory 
outcomes for investor protection and market integrity that are the same as, or consistent with, 
those that are required in traditional financial markets. 
Risk based classification and scope - Taxonomy 
There is a general consensus from respondents that taking an outcomes-focused approach is 
appropriate when applying or developing regulatory frameworks for CASPs.   
Several respondents suggested that IOSCO should consider adopting a globally consistent 
taxonomy for crypto -assets to provide clarity as to the legal character of such assets and a 
differentiated treatment of a crypto-asset according to its token classification and risk profile. 
Respondents highlighted the need for IOSCO to clarify the outer limits of activities that 
IOSCO principles should be applied  to. Suggestions regarding outer limits of activities 
included clarifying which DLT-based financial products and services are specifically covered 
by the separate DeFi consultation report, and taking account of the distinction between 
tokenized securities and other instruments that are subject to existing legal frameworks. 
Several respondents asked for clarification on the scope of “ancillary services and other 
activities” and whether the provision of investment, portfolio management, NFTs and crypto-
asset transfer are covered. Several respondents highlighted the need for in cluding additional 
activities. 
 
IOSCO’s response:  
 

=== PAGE 53 ===
 
48 
 
 
Substance over form 
Sufficient clarification is already set out covering the applicability of the Recommendations 
and how they apply. The application of the Recommendations is predicated on economic 
substitutability and a substance -over -form approach as clearly laid out in the explanatory 
guidance to Recommendation 1. In applying or developing regimes to cover crypto -assets, 
IOSCO members should arrive at consistent regulatory outcomes with those expected in 
traditional finance. However, IOSCO does not regulate the use of pa rticular crypto -asset 
market acronyms (ICOs, IEOs, NFTs, DAOs, etc.) or particular labels or naming conventions 
(so-called “exchanges” or so-called “stablecoins”) which may be seeking to portray legitimacy 
and compliance with  traditional finance regulations. Instead, the approach focuses on 
economic substance and substitutability as outlined above.  This allows the regulatory 
approach to adapt and apply to future developments. To strengthen this message further, 
some additional draft has been added to the preamble of Chapter 1 to further emphasise that 
the report focusses on the economic substance of crypto-assets and their substitutability vis-
à-vis traditional financial instruments (notwithstanding a crypto -asset’s purported potential 
use case or purpose as stated in its supporting marketing and/or distribution materials). 
In addition, a short glossary providing generic definitions to aid interpretation of common 
terms used in the CDA Recommendations has been included by way of Annex A to the draft 
Final Report. This Glossary uses technical, non-legal definitions that were included in the body 
of the CDA consultation report (and other IOSCO publications). Annex A includes a clear 
disclaimer that the Glossary is of limited scope and in no way attempts to set out legal 
definitions that could create opportunities for regulatory arbitrage, and which remain matters 
for individual jurisdictions to decide upon. 
In relation to the respective scope and interaction between the CDA and DeFi 
Recommendations, IOSCO will publish an umbrella note explaining in more detail the 
interoperability between the two sets of Recommendations 
 

=== PAGE 54 ===
 
49 
 
 
2. Chapter 2 – Recommendations on Governance and Disclosure of Conflicts 
Recommendation 2 (Organizational Governance):  Regulators should require a CASP to 
have effective governance and organizational  arrangements, commensurate to its activities, 
including systems, policies and procedures that would, amongst other things, address conflicts 
of interest, including those arising from different activities conducted, and services provided 
by a CASP or its a ffiliated entities. These conflicts should be effectively identified, managed 
and mitigated.  
A regulator should consider whether certain conflicts are sufficiently acute that they cannot 
be effectively mitigated, including through effective systems and controls, disclosure, or 
prohibited actions, and may require more robust measures such as legal segregation  of 
functions and activities, as well as separate registration and regulation of certain activities and 
functions to address this Recommendation. 
 
Recommendation 3 – (Disclosure of Role, Capacity and Trading conflicts):  Regulators 
should require a CASP to have accurately disclosed each role and capacity in which it is acting 
at all times. These disclosures should be made, in plain, concise, non -technical language, as 
relevant to the CASP’s clients, prospective clients, t he general public, and regulators in all 
jurisdictions where the CASP operates, and into which it provides services. Relevant 
disclosures should take place prior to entering into an agreement with a prospective client to 
provide services, and at any point thereafter when such position changes (e.g., if and when the 
CASP takes on a new, or different, role or capacity). 
Addressing specific conflicts of interests - Functional Segregation 
Most respondents were supportive of Recommendation 2 and of the view that Chapter 2 
covered adequately the types of conflicts of interest that should be covered. 
However, for the purposes of legal certainty, a couple of respondents requested further details 
and guidance regarding which activities are permissible or potentially problematic. 
One respondent asserted that vertically integrated CASPs’ activities should be prohibited to 
combat unmanageable conflicts of interest within CASPs, or alternatively, CASPs should be 
required to set aside a certain level of capital to ensure the protection of investors in cases of 

=== PAGE 55 ===
 
50 
 
 
conflicts of interest. 
Another respondent requested further guidance specifically on acute conflicts of interest that 
cannot be mitigated solely by disclosures, and what kinds of conflicts of interest would require 
more robust measures to mitigate.  
Some respondents mentioned the following other types of conflicts of interest that they think 
should be covered by a CASP’s conflicts of interest arrangements (e.g. commingling of funds, 
Prohibition on CASPs issuing so-called native or platform tokens, etc.).  
One respondent suggested  including additional detail in the  recommendations on 
activities/products/services which CASPs, particularly vertically integrated CASPs, must not 
offer under the same legal entity to avoid conflict of interest. 
Some respondents were of the view that it was preferable to leave CASPs the option to manage 
conflicts of interest through governance, and internal and external control mechanisms and 
not necessarily to impose more stringent rules such as legal segregation. 
Some respondents stressed that while good disclosure was vital, it cannot be the sole measure 
to address conflicts of interest. 
Some respondents recommended introducing disclosure requirements to enhance 
transparency and mitigate risks, such as implementing robust transaction reporting, 
establishing a regulatory framework for off-chain transactions, enhancing security and privacy 
measures, and requiring proportionate obligations for CASPs. 
IOSCO’s response:  
The guidance will be strengthened and tied back to the language in Recommendation 
2. 
The guidance highlights certain combinations of activities (i.e., acting as market operator and 
trading intermediary) as an example of a conflict. In order to strengthen the guidance and tie 
back to the language in Recommendation 2, the guidance now explains that regulators should 
consider whether the conflicts of interests presented are unmanageable  within CASPs and 
address them through requiring legal separation of these activities, especially where these 
services are offered to retail clients. This new g uidance retains some flexibility for regulators 

=== PAGE 56 ===
 
51 
 
 
to require appropriate mitigants for CASPs to manage conflicts, while providing a stronger 
message around an area of acute potential conduct risk (particularly where retail clients are 
involved), as illustrated by high-profile firm failures such as FTX. Mi nor further adjustments 
have been made to the guidance to further reflect that a jurisdiction can evaluate whether the 
prohibition on unmanageable conflicts should be instituted in situations where these conflicts 
cannot be effectively managed by other ava ilable conflict management measures (i.e. , in a 
manner that minimizes harm to investors and/or markets to an acceptable level). 
Specific disclosures regarding any commercial relationships between CASPs and third parties 
have been included in the Recommendation 18 setting out that CASPs should also disclose any 
commercial arrangements with legal or natural persons providing investment advice on 
crypto-assets admitted to trading on their platform or in which they have a material interest. 
This extends to any individuals who may be commissioned to recommend investment in 
particular crypto -assets on media (including social media). In so me jurisdictions, the 
investment advice frameworks apply to Recommendations made by service providers, 
including so-called ‘finfluencers’ and other intermediaries.  
 
  

=== PAGE 57 ===
 
52 
 
 
3. Chapter 3 – Recommendations on Order Handling and Trade Disclosures 
(Trading Intermediaries Vs Market Operators) 
Recommendation 4 (Client Order Handling):  Regulators should require a CASP, when 
acting as an agent, to handle all client orders fairly and equitably. Regulators should require a 
CASP to have systems, policies and procedures to provide for fair and expeditious execution 
of client orders, and restrictions on front-running client orders. Regulators should require that 
a CASP discloses these systems, policies and procedures to clients and prospective clients, as 
relevant. Orders should be handled promptly and accurately recorded. 
 
Recommendation 5 (Market Operation Requirements):  Regulators should require a 
CASP that operates a market or acts as an intermediary (directly or indirectly on behalf of a 
client) to provide pre- and post-trade disclosures in a form and manner that are the same as, 
or that achieve similar regulatory outc omes consistent with, those that are required in 
traditional financial markets. 
Best execution and disclosure 
Respondents agreed that the same standards should be applied to the crypto-asset market as 
that applied to traditional financial markets, including around best execution and disclosure. 
Several Traditional Finance Entities and Industry Associations believed that 
Recommendations 4 and 5 would have a positive impact on price discovery, market integrity, 
transparency in the market, the management of conflicts of interest, and improved fairne ss 
which would then help investors to make informed decisions. 
Nuances between market operators and intermediaries 
Several respondents also suggested that attention should be paid to the nuances between 
market operators and intermediaries that act as principal or act as agent due to the fact there 
are differences in the way they operate and the obligations that they are subject to in 
traditional financial markets. 

=== PAGE 58 ===
 
53 
 
 
Respondents were broadly in favor of CASPs engaging in both roles (i.e., as a market operator 
and trading intermediary), however, not without limitations in place to manage potential 
conflicts of interest. 
Respondents suggested that CASPs performing both roles should be subject to appropriate 
controls to ensure effective management of potential conflicts of interest, as is the case in 
traditional financial markets. This could include implementing best execution and disclosure 
obligations as well as adhering to robust governance standards and being subject to regulatory 
oversight. 
Furthermore, an Industry Association noted that market participants in traditional finance 
can engage in dual roles when subject to effective regulation and oversight, therefore, the same 
regulatory principle should apply to CASPs. 
Two Traditional Finance Entities expressed skepticism around CASPs engaging in both roles 
i.e., acting as both a market operator and trading intermediary. 
Data Availability, Reporting and Information Sharing 
Respondents agreed with the importance of introducing disclosure requirements regarding 
off-chain transactions as doing so would improve transparency and market integrity. 
Respondents provided several suggestions regarding how CASPs could identify and disclose 
data related to off -chain transactions. Ranging from the creation of an event notification 
message system, the real -time logging of order book activity, the mirroring of traditional 
finance practices to internal record keeping. 
However, a Think Tank stated that Recommendation 5 should not prescribe a particular 
method or procedure for identifying and disclosing pre - and post-trade transaction data for 
transactions that occur off-chain due to ongoing technological developments in this space. 
Some feedback items are about the importance of bringing transparency to off -chain 
transactions, impediments to data collection on a cross -jurisdictional basis arising from 
different data protection standards, disclosure and regulatory reporting by CASPs to relevant 
authorities, acknowledgement of key concepts and mechanisms for international co-operation 
(e.g. bilateral mechanisms). 
 

=== PAGE 59 ===
 
54 
 
 
IOSCO’s response:  
Additional guidance under Recommendation 4 
With respect to calls for further clarity on how to deliver best, or fair and expeditious, 
execution, we are including additional guidance under Recommendation 4 on the best 
execution factors that jurisdictions may require CASPs to take into account (i.e., the execution 
factors to be assessed and the costs to be considered when executing orders, such as explicit 
trading costs and implicit market impact costs). 
Certain combinations of activities already highlighted. 
As currently drafted, the guidance highlights certain combinations of activities (i.e. acting as 
market operator and trading intermediary) as an example of an inherent conflict. 
Recommendations 4 and 5 set out the expectation that CASPs provide post-trade disclosures 
or transaction reporting of off -chain transactions and an obligation for intermediaries to 
ensure best execution. These types of disclosures and obligations are likel y to provide more 
information to clients regarding the impact conflicts of interests may  have on their order 
execution. However, conflict disclosure is not a substitute for public price disclosures or for 
obligations of CASPs to their customers to give the  best price on trades. Data transparency 
and regulatory reporting is integral to effective market surveillance. The Guidance to 
Recommendation 9 has been expanded in this regard acknowledging the importance of 
homogenizing data standards. 
 
  

=== PAGE 60 ===
 
55 
 
 
4. Chapter 4 – Recommendations in Relation to Listing of Crypto-Assets and 
Certain Primary Market Activities 
Recommendation 6 (Admission to Trading):  Regulators should require a CASP to 
establish, maintain and appropriately disclose to the public their standards— including 
systems, policies and procedures— for listing/admitting crypto assets to trading on its market, 
as well as those for removing crypto-assets from trading. These standards should include the 
substantive and procedural standards for making such determinations. 
 
Recommendation 7 (Management of Primary Markets Conflicts):  Regulators should 
require a CASP to manage and mitigate conflicts of interest surrounding the issuance, trading 
and listing of crypto-assets.  
This should include appropriate disclosure requirements and may necessitate a prohibition 
on a CASP listing and/or facilitating trading in, its own proprietary crypto -assets, or any 
crypto-assets in which the CASP, or an affiliated entity, may have a material interest. 
Expectations surrounding trading admission processes 
Respondents generally supported Recommendation 6 on listing and de-listing crypto assets. 
Many respondents provided suggestions for further detailed guidance relating to the systems, 
procedures, policies and disclosures to be put in place by CASPs. 
However, some respondents were concerned that it may be challenging, onerous, or irrelevant 
for CASPs to disclose issuer-related information relating to crypto -assets where are 
decentralized or which do not have a clearly identifiable issuer. 
Some expectations surrounding trading admission processes are conducting due diligence on 
prospective listing of crypto -assets CASPs to examine the smart contract of any prospective 
token for malicious code and make certain assurances. 
Several respondents (predominantly CASPs) did not support prohibitions on a CASP listing 
and/or trading any crypto-assets in which they or their affiliates have a material interest.    
 

=== PAGE 61 ===
 
56 
 
 
These respondents commented that there are effective mitigants, such as governance 
arrangements, polices and disclosures, without needing to enact prohibitions. 
IOSCO’s response:  
There were calls for further guidance regarding the systems, procedures and policies that 
CASPs should have. This would , to a certain extent , depend on the relevant jurisdictional 
framework. Therefore, IOSCO will not provide further elaboration on this point.  
A question arises as to whether CASPs should be permitted to admit to trading crypto -assets 
in which they have a material interest. This could involve requiring further disclosures around 
admission practices and stronger measures around taking proprietary positions in the crypto-
assets. After consideration, it was decided that Recommendation 7 (Management of Primary 
Market Conflicts) is sufficiently robust as drafted, and that additional IOSCO guidance is not 
needed at this juncture.    
 

=== PAGE 62 ===
 
57 
 
 
5. Chapter 5 – Recommendations to Address Abusive Behaviors 
Recommendation 8 (Fraud and Market Abuse):  Regulators should bring enforcement 
actions against offences involving fraud and market abuse in crypto-asset markets, taking into 
consideration the extent to which they are not already covered by existing regulatory 
frameworks. These offences should cover all relevant fraudulent and abusive practices such as 
market manipulation, insider dealing and unlawful disclosure of inside information; money 
laundering/terrorist financing; issuing false and misleading statements; and misappropriation 
of funds. 
Recommendation 9 (Market Surveillance):  Regulators should have market surveillance 
requirements applying to each CASP, so that market abuse risks are effectively mitigated. 
Recommendation 10 (Management of Material Non -Public Information): Regulators 
should require a CASP to put in place systems, policies and procedures around the 
management of material non -public information, including, where relevant, information 
related to whether a crypto -asset will be admitted or listed for trading on its platform and 
information related to client orders, trade execution, and personally identifying information. 
Capturing abusive practices and offences 
Overall support from respondents who considered that the draft Recommendations and 
supporting guidance capture most of the offences occurring in crypto -asset markets. 
Nevertheless, respondents indicated that specificities of crypto-markets (e.g. on-chain and off-
chain data, market fragmentation, direct retail access, etc.) should be taken into account in 
order to effectively prevent and mitigate market abuse risks. To that end, respondents 
highlighted some of the novel offences that are bespoke to crypto assets (e.g. private key theft, 
51% attacks, MEV, etc.) and then provided a few specific examples of fraudulent behaviors that 
can be or have been observed in crypto markets. 
While some respondents seem to encourage regulators not to perceive the crypto -asset 
ecosystem as inherently riskier than traditional finance, other respondents provided evidence 
of rates of insider dealing occurring ahead of crypto -assets listing which are significantly 
higher than those observed for traditional financial instruments. 
Separately, respondents suggested that the definition of inside information and market 

=== PAGE 63 ===
 
58 
 
 
manipulation can be broader than in traditional markets and it may need to be adapted to 
take into account abusive practices that may not yet currently exist in traditional markets. 
Finally, as abusive behaviors often take place via social media platforms,  a couple of 
respondents suggested covering influencer marketing practices in the Recommendations to 
ensure that any communication and advertising of crypto assets is not misleading. 
Overall support from respondents who considered that market surveillance is a critical 
element to mitigate market abuse risks within the crypto ecosystem. There was also support 
for placing increased responsibility on CASPs for preventing, detecting and combating market 
abuse on their own trading platforms.  
However, respondents suggested considering several additional elements to supplement 
Recommendation 9 as to address risks specific to crypto -asset markets, including adequate 
monitoring of illicit activities (such as sanction violations, money laundering a nd terrorism 
financing), integration of off -chain and on -chain data for market surveillance purposes, 
development of systems to analyze data contained in news releases and social media posts, 
improved collaboration among regulators, as well as the adaption  of the market surveillance 
approach depending on the CASP/crypto-activities conducted.  
In addition, respondents generally suggested that market surveillance requirements must be 
updated and amended on a regular basis to address novel risks and trends, also considering 
that continuous monitoring of market developments, supported by future-proofed regulatory 
principles, is required to ensure that detection methods remain successful. 
IOSCO’s response:  
Additional details about monitoring social media has been included. 
The categorization of abusive practices such as fraud, market manipulation and market abuse 
are arguably broad enough to also capture these ‘bespoke’ detrimental market integrity 
practices on display in crypto-asset markets.  
Additional detail by way of a footnote has been included in the guidance to Recommendation 
8 to identify expectations on CASPs to monitor media (including social media) for 
manipulative practices (i.e., information sharing on prospective listings on telegr am, signal, 

=== PAGE 64 ===
 
59 
 
 
etc.). Feedback suggested that the guidance could also call on regulatory authorities to build 
appropriate expertise and consider conducting social media monitoring.  
Further commentary on data has been included.  
Data transparency and regulatory reporting is integral to effective market surveillance. The 
Guidance to Recommendation 9 has been expanded in this regard acknowledging the 
importance of homogenizing data standards. As part of this, consideration has been given to 
whether the data standards should be the same as in traditional markets, such that they could 
support the same pre- and post-trade price transparency obligations (where appropriate) and 
the ability of jurisdictions to surveil and examine markets f or pricing information. 
Notwithstanding the fact that the non-compliance of CASPs is a contributing factor to these 
data challenges for regulators, it must nonetheless be acknowledged that the market itself is 
still teething its way through some of these d ata challenges. Accordingly, the explanatory 
guidance to Recommendation 9 has been supplemented to note that IOSCO and its members 
intends to (1) conduct work amongst its members going forward to promote the development 
of data standards that could help to  improve the availability, and improved access to better 
and more homogenized international data sets, and alongside this (2) encourages its members 
to develop appropriate solutions within their jurisdictions to help further these objectives. 
 
 

=== PAGE 65 ===
 
60 
 
 
6. Chapter 6 – Recommendation on Cross-Border Co-operation 
Recommendation 11 (Enhanced Regulatory Co-operation): Regulators, in recognition of 
the cross-border nature of crypto-asset issuance, trading, and other activities, should have the 
ability to share information and cooperate with regulators and relevant authorities in other 
jurisdictions with respect to such activities.  
This includes having available co-operation arrangements and/or other mechanisms to engage 
with regulators and relevant authorities in other jurisdictions. These should accommodate the 
authorization and on -going supervision of regulated CASPs and enable br oad assistance in 
enforcement investigations and related proceedings. 
Concepts and Mechanisms for International Co-operation 
Comments overwhelmingly agree that international co -operation is critical to the goals of 
cross-border co-operation. 
The various concepts in approaching international co -operation include comments 
referencing a harmonized regulatory approach, others to global or cross- border alignment, 
equivalence regimes, substituted compliance regimes, passporting, notification requirements, 
and still others, a focus on regulatory outcomes. 
A number of responses urge focusing on, leveraging, and using the full power of, the 
mechanisms of international co-operation, including the IOSCO MMoU and EMMoU, as well 
as the other mechanism set forth in the consultation report, such as bilateral or multilateral 
co-operation arrangements, supervisory colleges or other networks.   
One comment noted that the MMoU and EMMoU are limited because they are too sector-
specific as they relate to activities in the securities sector, but not to the enforcement of off -
chain transactions. However, the majority of respondents see the IOSCO MmoU and EMMoU 
as key facilitating mechanisms for advancing international co-operation. 
Data Sharing for International Co-operation 
Some comments requested clarification as to the nature of the information to be shared. 

=== PAGE 66 ===
 
61 
 
 
Some comments noted that impediments to data collection such as different jurisdictions 
having different data protection standards could affect cross-border co-operation.    
Some comments were concerned about data confidentiality and would like to see data sharing 
for international co -operation be limited solely to regulatory ends, while another comment 
believed that data should be shared as necessary to maintain fair orderly and transparent 
markets and that authorities should have access to relevant data for supervisory and regulatory 
purposes wherever the data is located.   
On balance, respondents  recommended targeted approaches regarding data sharing for 
international co-operation purposes, with regulators working to identify the data that is the 
most meaningful from a supervisory perspective, take an incremental approach to avoid the 
risks of data overcollection, and collect and process data that is needed for defined pur poses 
and that the various information sharing mechanisms set forth in the consultation report 
could be used to share data as needed. 
IOSCO’s response:  
The Recommendations promote international co-operation. 
IOSCO agrees with the benefits of international co-operation as many of the respondents have 
set forth. The need for international co -operation is immediate. The IOSCO 
Recommendations promote international co-operation and provide jurisdictions with a broad 
range of mechanisms by which international co -operation can be achieved. Acknowledging 
the importance of homogeni zing data standards, additional supplementary text has been 
included under Recommendation 9. 
 
 

=== PAGE 67 ===
 
62 
 
 
7. Chapter 7 – Recommendation on Client money and assets 
Recommendation 12 (Overarching Custody Recommendation): Regulators should apply 
the IOSCO Recommendations Regarding the Protection of Client Assets when considering the 
application of existing frameworks, or New Frameworks, covering CASPs that hold or 
safeguard Client Assets. 
Recommendation 13 (Segregation and Handling of Client Monies and Assets):  
Regulators should require a CASP to place Client Assets in trust, or to otherwise segregate 
them from the CASP’s proprietary assets. 
Recommendation 14 (Disclosure of Custody and Safekeeping Arrangements):  
Regulators should require a CASP to disclose, as relevant, in clear, concise and non-technical 
language to clients: 
1. How Client Assets are held, and the arrangements for safeguarding these assets and/or 
their private keys;  
2. the use (if any) of an independent custodian, sub-custodian or related party custodian;  
3. the extent to which Client Assets are aggregated or pooled within omnibus client 
accounts, the rights of individual clients with respect to the aggregated or pooled 
assets, and the risks of loss arising from any pooling or aggregating activities;  
4. Risks arising from the CASP’s handling or moving of Client Assets, whether directly or 
indirectly, such as through a cross-chain bridge; and 
Full and accurate information on the obligations and responsibilities of a CASP with respect 
to the use of Client Assets, as well as private keys, including the terms for their restitution, 
and on the risks involved. 
Recommendation 15 (Client Asset Reconciliation and Independent Assurance):  
Regulators should require a CASP to have systems, policies, and procedures to conduct regular 
and frequent reconciliations of Client Assets subject to appropriate independent assurance. 
 

=== PAGE 68 ===
 
63 
 
 
Recommendation 16 (Securing client money and assets): Regulators should require a 
CASP to adopt appropriate systems, policies and procedures to mitigate the risk of loss, theft 
or inaccessibility of Client Assets. 
Minimum requirements and risk management 
Respondents generally agreed that the recommendations provide adequate protection of 
customer crypto-assets held in custody by CASPs.  
There was also consensus for the intended outcomes proposed in Chapter 7.  
Respondents agreed with using traditional finance requirements as a starting point, but one 
industry association strongly felt that new custody laws were required due to the profound 
differences between traditional finance asset holdings and the holding of  private keys. 
Although the response did not offer specific policy recommendations or solutions.  
Respondents sought clarification on the proportion of crypto -assets which could be held in 
hot/warm/cold wallets.  
Several respondents commented that CASPs should be required to disclose their proof of 
reserves/liabilities to clients (in a manner which could be independently verified) on a periodic 
basis. As part of the process/procedures, CASPs should include robust risk management tools, 
particularly for credit and liquidity risks. 
Several respondents felt that legal separation of client assets and proprietary assets should be 
mandatory, however others felt this suggestion would be impractical, especially in instances 
such as when the mixing of assets arises from a collection of fees or is beneficial for 
technological execution efficiencies.  
A number of respondents referred to MICA as a benchmark for defining minimum 
requirements and highlighted specific provisions which could be incorporated, for instance, 
Articles 70 (‘Safekeeping of clients’ crypto -assets and funds) and 75 (‘Providing custo dy and 
administration of crypto-assets on behalf of clients’).  
Respondents emphasized their desire that recommendations remain technologically neutral. 

=== PAGE 69 ===
 
64 
 
 
An industry association sought acknowledgment CASPs already subject to custody regulation 
would not have additional requirements imposed on them. There was a split between 
respondents who felt that IOSCO should keep their recommendations principle based to allow 
for new technology to come into scope as developments happen, and respondents who sought 
to have specific recommendations included. 
A traditional finance entity suggested that the term ‘custodian’ be clearly defined in the 
recommendations as there is a variation of understanding of this term outside of traditional 
finance. They felt a clear definition would ensure that requirements are drafted and applied 
as consistently as possible.  
An industry association requested that the recommendations outline specific prudential, 
governance and operational resilience requirements, and insolvency policies to strengthen the 
resilience of custodial activity and protect investors. 
IOSCO’s response:  
We welcome the strong agreement from the respondents with Recommendations 13 
(Segregation and Handling of Client Monies and Assets) and 15 (Client Asset Reconciliation 
and Independent Assurance).  
The responses have highlighted some challenges, for example, lack of skilled providers for 
audits, but note that the industry is continually developing and maturing and should 
overcome these challenges.  
In relation to limits placed on hot/warm/cold wallets, we note the feedback received and 
consider that any limits should be within the remit of regulators within the relevant 
jurisdictions. We do consider that customers should be aware of the respective ri sks of the 
different types of wallets and choose the right service for them. 
  

=== PAGE 70 ===
 
65 
 
 
8. Chapter 8 – Recommendation to Address Operational and Technological Risks 
Recommendation 17 (Management and disclosure of Operational and Technological 
Risks): Regulators should require a CASP to comply with requirements pertaining to 
operational and technology risk and resilience in accordance with IOSCO’s Recommendations 
and Standards.  
Regulators should require a CASP to disclose in a clear, concise and non-technical manner, all 
material sources of operational and technological risks and have appropriate risk management 
frameworks (e.g. people, processes, systems and controls) in place t o manage and mitigate 
such risks. 
Additional or unique technology/cyber/operational risks 
The additional and unique risks mentioned are mostly technological and cybersecurity risks 
that are native to crypto-assets and their underlying technology, which include the use of DLT 
and smart contracts, forks in the protocol, storage and safekeeping of the crypto-asset, as well 
as cross-chain bridges. 
Disclosure of risks  
Several respondents commented on what should be disclosed, mainly information related to 
crypto-asset trading decisions, as well as technical, cyber and operational risks. 
Others pointed to the disclosure of the CASPs’ risk management framework, the results of risk 
assessments, and the results of external audits 
Some respondents pointed to the need for investor education, taking into account that a 
certain level of knowledge is required to understand the information disclosed. 
Some respondents mentioned methods of communication with retail investors, with the 
majority calling for transparent and clear disclosure in non-technical language. 
IOSCO’s response:  
It is not proposed to make any changes to Recommendation 17. 
 
 

=== PAGE 71 ===
 
66 
 
 
9. Chapter 9 – Recommendation for Retail Distribution 
Recommendation 18 (Retail Client Appropriateness and Disclosure):  Regulators should 
require a CASP to operate in a manner consistent with IOSCO’s Standards regarding interactions 
and dealings with retail clients. Regulators should require, or work with other relevant 
authorities to require, that all promotions and marke ting of crypto -assets to retail clients 
accurately and sufficiently disclose the product and service provided as well as the associated 
risks in a manner that is fair, clear, and not misleading.  
Regulators should require a CASP to implement adequate systems, policies and procedures, 
including for providing disclosures in relation to onboarding new clients, and as part of its 
ongoing services to existing clients. This should include assessing the appropriateness and/or 
suitability of particular crypto-asset products and services offered to each retail client. 
Having clear disclosure requirements 
Respondents generally supported Recommendation 18 and agreed that IOSCO’s Standards 
and regulatory measures used in the financial markets broadly continued to be relevant to the 
context of CASPs and crypto-asset activities. 
Many respondents highlighted that a key regulatory measure would be disclosure 
requirements by CASPs to ensure that retail clients have clear and accurate information to 
make informed decisions. 
On requiring CASPs to assess the appropriateness and/or suitability of crypto-assets products 
and services offered to each retail customer, several respondents were of the view that such 
requirements were not necessary and that customers (retail or otherwi se) should be given 
access to crypto-asset products and services. 
Not banning or prohibiting advertisements/promotions 
Respondents were against the outright prohibition of advertising or endorsements of crypto-
asset but agreed that regulatory safeguards were needed given widespread instances of 
consumer harm.  
The safeguards should be in line with current safeguards that were applicable to traditional 
financial services on a “same activity, same risk, same regulation/regulatory outcome” basis. 

=== PAGE 72 ===
 
67 
 
 
The guidance note would be enhanced to include the additional regulatory safeguards 
suggested in the feedback.  
Several respondents have made reference to the need for greater accountability by parties 
other than CASPs (such as social media personalities and “finfluencers”). 
IOSCO’s response:  
Additional text has been added to Recommendation 18 setting out that r egulators should 
require, or work with other relevant authorities to require, that all promotions of crypto-assets 
to retail clients accurately and sufficiently disclose the product and service provided as well as 
the associated risks in a manner that is fair, clear, not misleading. 
Additional guidance has been included under Recommendation 18 setting out that CASPs 
should also disclose any commercial arrangements with (legal or natural) persons providing 
investment advice on crypto -assets admitted to trading on their platform or in which they 
have a material interest. This extends to any individuals who may be commissioned  to 
recommend investment in particular crypto-assets on media (including social media). In some 
jurisdictions, the investment advice frameworks apply to r ecommendations made by service 
providers including so-called ‘finfluencers’ and other intermediaries. 
Additional detail by way of a footnote has been included in the guidance to Recommendation 
8 to identify expectations on CASPs to monitor media (including social media) for 
manipulative practices (i.e., information sharing on prospective listings on telegr am, signal, 
etc.). Feedback suggested that the guidance could also call on regulatory authorities to build 
appropriate expertise and consider conducting social media monitoring.  
Guidance has been incorporated setting out that Regulators should require CASPs to have an 
efficient and effective mechanism to address client complaints. Regulators should also take 
steps to tackle the risks posed to retail investors by the prevalence of poor marketing practices. 
This should be done directly where IOSCO members have the mandate or in coordination 
with other domestic regulators who are responsible for issues related to media and advertising 
(such as advertising standard setting and consumer watchdogs).  
 
 

=== PAGE 73 ===
 
68 
 
 
10. Box Text Commentary on Stablecoins 
Stablecoins’ different use cases as a store of value, medium of exchange or bridge 
Referring to the potential use case of stablecoins as a medium of exchange and taking note of 
FSB publications, certain respondents suggested that Stablecoins are more suited to 
prescriptive prudential regulations and IOSCO principles, unless binding, may open the way 
to regulatory arbitrage. 
Certain respondents, especially Blockchain Industry Associations, advocated for self -
regulation or a bespoke regulatory regime, suggesting that the recommendations are 
burdensome on issuers or the CASP. 
Some respondents provided specific modifications to the framework proposed in the 
consultation paper. These range from adjustments to the definition of a stablecoin, 
clarification on interaction with other frameworks (notably FSB Recommendations  and 
European Markets in Crypto-Assets Regulation or “MICA”), additional clarification on custody 
arrangements and counterparty risks, to enhancing reporting requirements. 
Some respondents also suggested considering the risk profile of the asset and related activity 
to calibrate regulatory requirements and distinguish stablecoins from other non -referenced 
assets. 
Quite a few commenters invited IOSCO and its members to continue collaborating in this area 
as use cases emerge and to coordinate efforts with prudential authorities, central banks, and 
other relevant entities in each jurisdiction. 
IOSCO’s response:  
The Recommendations apply to all crypto-assets including so-called stablecoins in seeking to 
deliver regulatory outcomes of investor protection and market integrity. The unique 
characteristics and idiosyncratic considerations presented by stablecoins are sufficiently 
addressed in the proposals and these have been maintained without amendment. 
 
 
  

=== PAGE 74 ===
 
69 
 
 
Annex C – Overview of Stablecoins, their Roles and Uses in Crypto-Asset Markets  
What is a Stablecoin? 
As defined by the FSB 36, a stablecoin is “a crypto -asset that aims to maintain a stable value 
relative to a specified asset, or a pool or basket of assets”.   
Stablecoins represent a large portion of the total market value for crypto-assets, and as a result 
there is a renewed focus on stablecoin arrangements. While stablecoin arrangements seek to 
achieve a particular characteristic (i.e., a stable value, in most cases tied to a fiat currency (e.g., 
the U.S. Dollar)), they are not technologically different from other types of crypto -assets.  
Stablecoins generally purport to be pegged or linked to one or more assets, in many cases fiat 
currency (“reference assets”).   
Despite claims by some stablecoin 37 issuers that the arrangements are “backed” or 
“collateralized” by reserve assets, it should be noted that several currently traded stablecoins 
are not in fact fully “backed” or “collateralized” by reserve assets. Therefore, stablecoin holders 
may not be entitled to any redemption right (at face value or otherwise) from the issuer of the 
stablecoin. 
Stablecoin arrangements can take many forms and can reference one or more of the following 
asset types, or a combination of these asset types: 
• Fiat currencies: stablecoins can reference one or more fiat currencies. The fiat currencies, 
or assets with equivalent fair value, may or may not be safeguarded by a custodian. 
• Other real -world assets: stablecoins can reference other real -world assets, for example,  
securities, commodities, derivatives, real -estate, and/or other financial instruments and 
assets. 
Finally, some stablecoins can also be pegged to and backed by other crypto -assets and/or 
market themselves as algorithmically controlled. An algorithmically controlled stablecoin is one 
that typically uses an algorithm to maintain price stability relative to the identified reference 
 
36   See FSB, High-level Recommendations for the Regulation, Supervision and Oversight of Crypto -Asset Activities 
and Markets: Final report, Final Report, July 17 2023. 
37  Generally, the issuer of a stablecoin is the entity responsible for designing the stablecoin, and managing the 
minting, issuance, redemption and supply of tokens. The stablecoin issuer also may manage the reserve assets.  
The trading price, and therefore maintenance of the peg, occurs with respect to fiat -based stablecoins through 
trading activities and the ability of certain market participants to acquire newly minted stablecoins in exchange 
for fiat currency and to put stablecoins to issuers for redemption. Algorithmically controlled stablecoins use a 
different mechanism to maintain the peg. 

=== PAGE 75 ===
 
70 
 
 
asset by adjusting the supply of tokens as needed. These types of arrangements are not covered 
in this Annex. 
Uses of Stablecoins 
Stablecoins are predominantly used to facilitate trading, lending and borrowing of crypto -
assets, and are used as a perceived stable leg of a crypto -asset trading pair and as collateral  in 
lending and borrowing arrangements, both on crypto-asset platforms and in DeFi applications 
and protocols. As such, stablecoins can play an important role in a CASP’s operations.   
Some have said that stablecoins may have the potential to be used for payments, outside of 
trading, lending and borrowing activities. At the same time, stablecoins may constitute a 
financial instrument. Issues involving stablecoins have been considered by a number of global 
organizations and standard setting bodies, including the FSB, IOSCO and CPMI -IOSCO 
because of the potential systemic impact they could have if used globally as a means of payment 
in commerce and because of their potential impact on investors and markets. 
Risks of Stablecoins 
Risks presented by crypto -assets are also relevant to stablecoins. In particular, there are risks 
addressed by these Recommendations, such as conflicts of interest, abusive behaviors, lack of 
operational resilience, information asymmetry, poor governance, lack of financial resilience and 
increased concentration risk.   
However, stablecoins also present specific risks that differ from other crypto-assets due to their 
purported “stability” in relation to reference assets. These risks include those that flow from a 
lack of transparency, lack of verification of underlying reserve assets and potential for a “bank 
run” on the stablecoin.38  
Reserve Assets 
There are risks that the reserve assets supporting a stablecoin might either be insufficient, or 
unavailable, to fund redemption requests, either when the issuer is a going concern, or when it 
is insolvent. The particular risks relating to reserve assets i s enhanced in stablecoin 
arrangements in which the reserve assets are not held in a segregated manner and investors and 
 
38  Recent studies suggest that stablecoins are vulnerable to runs in times of stress, in a similar way to money market 
funds. 

=== PAGE 76 ===
 
71 
 
 
other holders of stablecoins do not have a direct right of redemption from the issuer from 
dedicated and segregated reserve assets. The credit risk of the issuer in this scenario, which is 
the most common currently is significant given the lack of segregat ion of reserve assets from 
other creditors of the stablecoin issuer. The particular risks relating to the sufficiency and/or 
viability of the reserve assets themselves could arise as a result of mismanagement of the reserve 
assets by the stablecoin issuer or due to market conditions. Even where the reserve assets are 
segregated, liquidity is a key risk in relation to the reserve assets as the reserve assets must be 
sufficiently liquid to enable issuers to use the reserve to fund redemption requests. A failure to 
fund such requests or loss of confidence could result in a “run” on the stablecoin. If the 
stablecoin issuer becomes insolvent, even stablecoin holders that have a direct right of 
redemption from an issuer may not be able to redeem their stablecoins, thus facing loss of their 
entire value. Stablecoin holders are subject to the credit risk of the stablecoin issuer if the 
reserve assets are not segregated and held for the crypto -asset holders in a way that protects 
the assets from other creditors of the stablecoin issuer. In this case, there may be no legal claim 
by the stablecoin holder as against the issuer or reserve.   
Reserve assets of a financial nature, including deposits with banks or assets held with 
custodians, create an interdependence channel with traditional finance. This poses two -way 
risks – a run on a stablecoin may threaten the viability of an institution th at holds the reserve 
assets as, for example, deposits. Similarly, the failure of a bank or custodian will mean that those 
reserve issues may become either illiquid or diminished for a period – and there is a risk of 
destabilizing the stablecoin, the stablecoin issuer and the wider crypto-asset market. 
Rights of Holders 
The use of stablecoins is dependent upon a holder having a direct right against the stablecoin 
issuer to obtain the fiat value of the stablecoin. However, many issuers of stablecoins place 
restrictions on the types of persons that can request redemptions or place a minimum value for 
redemptions. In many stablecoin structures, the stablecoin issuer will allow only larger 
institutions and crypto-asset trading platforms to interact directly with the stablecoin issuer to 
create and to redeem stablecoins. Other persons interested in holding stablecoins must acquire 
them in trading or similar activities from these third parties and may only look to these third 
parties, including crypto -asset trading platforms for repurchase or redemption of the 
stablecoins. As a result, stablecoin holders are subject to counterparty risk of the crypto -asset 
trading platforms in order to redeem their stablecoins. The rights of holders may not be clearly 

=== PAGE 77 ===
 
72 
 
 
disclosed, whether by the issuer of the stablecoin or other parties, and holders of stablecoins do 
not have any rights relating to the operation of the stablecoin arrangement.  
The majority of stablecoin distributions and trading occurs on secondary markets through 
CASPs and clients may not be aware of what rights they have and do not have against a 
stablecoin issuer. Further, a holder of a stablecoin may not understand that they are dependent 
on the continued viability and desire of CASPs to purchase stablecoins from them in order for 
them to sell or otherwise dispose of their stablecoin. Related to this issue is the fact that the 
pricing and, therefore, value of the stablecoin i n the hands of the stablecoin holder is 
determined by secondary market trading and market sentiment. For example, the secondary 
market price of a stablecoin can “de-peg” due to market conditions, including sentiment, even 
if the issuer is fulfilling redemptions of certain market participants at par. 
Money Laundering/Fraud/Scams 
As with other crypto-assets, stablecoins may appeal to money launderers and criminals who do 
not wish to subject the proceeds of crime to traditional financial system oversight. Stablecoins 
are also likely to be perceived as more stable than other crypto-assets, so are more attractive to 
money launderers and criminals who do not wish to be as exposed to crypto -asset market 
volatility.  
In light of the price instability of crypto -assets, because of their relatively more stable nature 
scammers have turned to stablecoins and are soliciting stablecoins from their victims.   
 
 
 