

=== PAGE 1 ===
 
IOSCO STATEMENT 
 
 
International Organization of Securities Commissions 
Organisation internationale des commissions de valeurs 
Organização Internacional das Comissões de Valores 
Organización Internacional de Comisiones de Valores 
اﻟﻣﻧظﻣﺔ اﻟدوﻟﯾﺔ ﻟﮭﯾﺋﺎت اﻷوراق اﻟﻣﺎﻟﯾﺔ 
 
 
The Board of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions 
 
IOSCO Statement on the consultation on the Proposed 
International Standard on Sustainability Assurance (ISSA) 5000 
and the related global outreach program 
1 December 2023 
 
The International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) congratulates the International 
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) on achieving an important milestone by consulting 
on their Proposed International Standard on Sustainability Ass urance (ISSA) 5000, General 
Requirements for Sustainability Assurance Engagements . IOSCO also recogni zes the extensive and 
thorough outreach program conducted by the IAASB during the consultation period in which IOSCO 
representatives took an active role. 
IOSCO welcomes the ambition of the proposed standard and reiterates its support for this work. The 
final standard could support high- quality assurance over sustainability- related information and may 
enhance the consistency, comparability and reliability of such information provided to the market.  
In its September 2022 statement , IOSCO set out some key standard setting considerations as the 
landscape for sustainability assurance develops. In March 2023, IOSCO published a report setting out 
key considerations to promote an effective global assurance framework for sustainability- related 
corporate reporting. 
IOSCO has analyzed the Proposed ISSA 5000 and monitored the stakeholder feedback around the 
world, including with reference to the considerations in the March 2023 report. Having also engaged 
with the IAASB to provide a capital markets perspective, IOSCO encourages the IAASB to consider 
some of the resulting key messages and priorities. 
IOSCO observations and key areas for IAASB’s consideration on the Proposed ISSA 5000  
Based on its review of the Proposed ISSA 5000 and additional stakeholder engagement, IOSCO has 
outlined some general observations and key areas for IAASB’s consideration in developing the final 
standard and providing any additional guidance.  
 

=== PAGE 2 ===
 
 
2 
 
General observations 
IOSCO commends the IAASB for its timely development of the Proposed ISSA 5000 in response to 
the public interest need for a profession-agnostic, sustainability assurance standard that supports the 
consistent performance of high-quality sustainability assurance engagements.  
IOSCO supports the general approach taken in the Proposed ISSA 5000, including: 
• the consideration of the standard- setting characteristics set out in the Public Interest 
Framework (PIF) as criteria to assess the proposed standard’s responsiveness to the public 
interest 
• the consideration of the entirety of a sustainability assurance engagement, from acceptance 
or continuance to reporting 
• building upon  extant requirements  in relevant International Standards on Assurance 
Engagements (ISAEs) 
• the identification of those International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) that include concepts 
appropriate to an overarching standard for assurance engagements on sustainability 
information, and the selection of relevant requirements and application material  from those 
ISAs.  
IOSCO also makes the following general observations:  
• While it is important that an international sustainability assurance standard be principles-
based, it should also be sufficient ly detailed to promote consistent application and behavior 
by all assurance practitioners and be suitable for use across all reporting frameworks. 
• Although the standard will inevitably be  drafted using technical language  (as is common in 
assurance standards), we believe a profession-agnostic assurance standard should provide, 
or be supplemented by, clear guidance suitable for use by all types of assurance providers, 
including guidance on key IAASB definitions and terminology.  
• We also encourage further guidance and refinement of requirements in other areas – including 
the work effort and procedures required for limited and reasonable assurance  engagements. 
These are elaborated in the next section.  
• An assurance standard should promote a high degree of transparency, irrespective of the type 
of provider and whether the standards are applied on a mandatory or a voluntary basis, which 
the proposed standard appears to do.  This broadly aligns with the recommendations in our 
March 2023 report which highlighted insufficient transparency on certain matters (which items 
have been subject to assurance, which standards have been applied, or the level of assurance 
provided), however noting that the jurisdictional determinations will be the ultimate driver of 
such requirements, including the form of reporting on assurance. 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 3 ===
 
 
3 
 
Key areas and priority topics for the IAASB’s consideration 
In addition to the observations mentioned above, IOSCO encourages the IAASB to consider these 
five priority topics in its efforts to develop a high-quality international assurance standard: 
1. Definitions, requirements and g uidance to support profession -agnostic application without 
diluting high-quality expectations and requirements 
IOSCO agrees that the principles-based requirements in the Proposed ISSA5000 are capable of being 
applied for all sustainability assurance engagements. However, the requirements and application 
material may need to be expanded and/or clarified over time to encourage more consistent application 
and scalability in the conduct of sustainability assurance engagements. This is particularly important 
to support assurance engagements by non- accountant assurance practitioners, thereby helping to 
ensure that equivalent quality and performance standards are expected and upheld. 
A profession-agnostic assurance standard needs to provide clear guidance for all types of providers. 
We therefore encourage the IAASB to develop implementation guidance to facilitate the consistent 
application of the requirements in the Proposed ISSA 5000, for example (but not limited to): (1)  in a 
group sustainability assurance engagement situation;  (2) to remind auditors of their responsibility 
under ISA 720 (Revised), The auditor’s responsibilities relating to other information and to support 
the proper implementation of the requirements in the Proposed ISSA 5000 regarding other information; 
and (3) on considerations around the connecti vity of information, including the necessity of 
communications between financial statement auditors and sustainability assurance providers. 
2. Continue to differentiate the work effort between limited and reasonable assurance 
Generally, we consider that the Proposed ISSA 5000 provides an appropriate basis for performing both 
limited assurance and reasonable assurance engagements. We support the IAASB’s approach of 
addressing both limited and reasonable assurance in a single overarching standard. The columnar 
approach provides appropriate differentiation of the work effort between limited and reasonable 
assurance for relevant elements of an assurance engagement.  
As with other aspects of the standard, additional guidance on certain elements may be useful as practice 
evolves and in response to questions that arise during implementation of the standards. 
3. Materiality 
IOSCO welcomes the IAASB’s Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) on The Application of Materiality 
by the Entity and the Assurance Practitioner , published in October 2023 in response to stakeholder 
demand.  
We generally support the approaches in the Proposed ISSA  5000 regarding the practitioner’s 
consideration of the entity’s “materiality process” and determining materiality  for numerical 
disclosures. However, w e believe the requirement to consider  materiality for narrative  disclosures 
should be strengthened. In the Proposed 5000, the performance requirement associated with 
“consideration” is not always clear , could be perceived as inherently optional, and may result in 
inconsistent application.  

=== PAGE 4 ===
 
 
4 
 
We further note that the guidance provided in the Proposed ISSA 5000 only addresses quantitative 
factors to consider when determining materiality for numerical  disclosures and does not address 
qualitative factors. We believe that the guidance provided in the Proposed ISSA 5000 should also give 
consideration to qualitative factors when determining materiality for numerical disclosures. 
More broadly, we believe the Proposed ISSA 5000 should be clear that materiality will be anchored in 
the applicable sustainability reporting framework.  
4. Assurance of forward-looking sustainability-related information  
IOSCO has previously noted that, relative to financial reporting, sustainability -related reporting 
typically involves a more extensive narrative component, longer time horizons for forward- looking 
information and more reliance on value chain information. We support the approach taken in the 
Proposed ISSA 5000 to address estimates and forward-looking information in the same section of the 
standard.  
We emphasize the importance of clarity  of requirements in this area , noting that  forward-looking 
sustainability-related information often involves significant complexities, including estimation 
uncertainty and the  use of judgement. We therefore encourage further clarity and specificity of 
requirements to support consistent application by practitioners. 
5. Susceptibility of sustainability information to material misstatement 
We support the IAASB’s approach to addressing the susceptibility of sustainability information to 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. We note that the IAASB makes numerous 
references to fraud throughout the requirements and application ma terial. From a public interest 
standpoint, we encourage the IAASB to include more specific requirements and application guidance 
related to fraud in the Proposed ISSA 5000 and clarify that the requirements could be applicable to 
both limited and reasonable assurance engagements.  
We welcome the IAASB’s consideration of greenwashing. That said , we note that, while the term 
“greenwashing” is not included in the main text of the standard, it is referenced in the accompanying 
Explanatory Memorandum under the topic of fraud. Recognizing that “greenwashing” is not a defined 
term and that it may occur independently of fraud, we encourage caution and clarity in the use of this 
terminology in the final standard.  Since greenwashing could manifest more subtly – for instance, 
through the tone or emphasis in an entity’s disclosures – there may be a case to consider this as part of 
the proposed “stand back” procedures in the standards. 
Similar to the objectives of the IAASB’s current project on fraud, we suggest clarifying the role and 
responsibilities of the practitioner. We encourage the IAASB to include specific requirements , 
application materials and appendices  to promote consistent application when considering material 
misstatement due to fraud. We also suggest enhancements to reinforce the importance, throughout the 
assurance engagement, of  the appropriate exercise of professional skepticism in fraud- related 
assurance procedures. 
We hope the IOSCO’s observations support a timely finalization of the standard and promote an 
effective global sustainability assurance standard. Also, we encourage the IAASB to continue to 

=== PAGE 5 ===
 
 
5 
 
closely coordinate with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA) and other 
relevant bodies, including the International Sustainability Standards Board, to address topics of mutual 
interest and align and promote the consistency of definitions and terminologies.  