

=== PAGE 1 ===
i 
 
Recommendations on Sustainability-Related 
Practices, Policies, Procedures and Disclosure 
in Asset Management 
 
 
Final Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board 
OF THE 
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF SECURITIES COMMISSIONS 
 
FR08/21 NOVEMBER 2021 
 


=== PAGE 2 ===
 
ii 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copies of publications are available from: 
The International Organization of Securities Commissions website www.iosco.org 
© International Organization of Securities Commissions 2021.  All rights reserved.  Brief 
excerpts may be reproduced or translated provided the source is stated. 
  

=== PAGE 3 ===
iii 
 
 
 
Contents 
 
Executive Summary ................................................................................................................... 1 
Chapter 1: Introduction .............................................................................................................. 4 
Chapter 2:  Regulatory Approaches to Sustainability -Related Practices and Firm -Level 
Disclosures by Asset Managers ............................................................................................... 12 
Chapter 3: Regulatory Approaches to Disclosures for Investment Products ........................... 28 
Chapter 4: Financial and Investor Education ........................................................................... 53 
Chapter 5: Challenges .............................................................................................................. 59 
Chapter 6: Recommendations .................................................................................................. 65 
Annex 1: Glossary.................................................................................................................... 71 
Annex 2: WS2 Consultation Report Feedback ........................................................................ 72 
 
 

=== PAGE 4 ===
 
1 
 
Executive Summary 
 
In recent years, there has been a growing recognition of the significant economic and financial 
impacts of climate change and environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks.  There have 
been challenges associated with the  growth of ESG investing and sustainability -related 
products, including the need for consistent, comparable, and decision-useful information and 
the risk of greenwashing.  In addition, stakeholders have called on financial market regulators 
to act decisively in global efforts to achieve the climate change commitments under the Paris 
Agreement.  Regulators and policymakers worldwide have been examining issues relating to 
sustainable finance, including climate change risks, in their regulatory and supervisory roles in 
order to address these challenges, including how asset managers take sustainabilit y-related 
risks and opportunities into consideration. 
 
Internationally, industry participants, investors, regulators, and policy makers have stepped up 
their efforts to address sustainability -related risks, opportunities, and impacts  and to help 
improve sustainability-related disclosures. 
 
This Final Report (the Report) , drafted by the IOSCO Task Force on Sustainable Finance  
(STF), follows the Consultation Report titled Recommendations on Sustainability -Related 
Practices, Policies, Procedures and Disclosure in Asset Management that was published on 30 
June 2021  (the Consultation Report) .1 This Report aims to improve sustainability -related 
practices, policies, procedures and disclosures in the asset management industry  through five 
recommendations for securities regulators and policymakers.   These recommendations are 
designed to provide a list of potential areas for consideration as  regulators and policymakers 
consider developing sustainability-related rules and regulations, consistent with their mandates 
and domestic regulatory frameworks.   
 
We received a total of forty-five (45) responses to the Consultation Report.  A summary of the 
responses is provided in Annex 2 of this Report.  Overall, respondents were supportive of the 
IOSCO’s work and were broadly in agreement with the proposed recommendations set out in 
the Consultation Report.  The IOSCO Board is grateful for  the responses received and took 
them into consideration when preparing this Report. 
 
The final recommendations, reflecting the comments received after the publication of the 
Consultation Report, are: 
 
Recommendation 1: Asset Manager Practices, Policies, Procedures and Disclosure.  Securities 
regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, should consider setting regulatory and 
supervisory expectations for asset managers in respect of the: (a) development and 
implementation of practices, policies and procedures relating to material sustainability-related 
risks and opportunities; and (b) related disclosure. 
 
Recommendation 2: Product Disclosure.   Securities regulators and/or policymakers, as 
applicable, should consider clarifying and/or expanding on existing regulatory requirements or 
guidance or, if necessary, creating new regulatory requirements or guidance, to improve 
 
1  CR01/2021 Recommendations on Sustainability-Related Practices, Policies, Procedures and Disclosure 
in Asset Management – Consultation Report, Report of the Board of IOSCO, 30 June 2021, available at 
https://www.iosco.org/library/pubdocs/pdf/IOSCOPD679.pdf  

=== PAGE 5 ===
2 
 
product-level disclosure in order to help investors better understand: (a) sustainability -related 
products; and (b) material sustainability-related risks for all products. 
 
Recommendation 3: Supervision and Enforcement.  Securities regulators and/or policymakers, 
as applicable, should have supervisory tools to monitor and assess whether asset managers and 
sustainability-related products  are in compliance with regulatory requirements and 
enforcement tools to address any breaches of such requirements. 
 
Recommendation 4: Terminology.   Securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, 
should consider en couraging industry participants to develop common sustainable finance -
related terms and definitions, including relating to ESG approaches, to ensure consistency 
throughout the global asset management industry. 
 
Recommendation 5: Financial and Investor Educ ation.  Securities regulators and/or 
policymakers, as applicable, should consider promoting financial and investor education 
initiatives relating to sustainability, or, where applicable, enhance existing sustainability -
related initiatives. 
 
In addition to setting out the final recommendations, this Report also includes the findings from 
the STF’s fact-finding exercises.  The Report found that in jurisdictions with sustainability -
related requirements relating to practices and disclosures by asset managers at the entity level, 
the requirements can be broadly categorised into the following areas: governance, investment 
strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets, with governance requirements being the 
most common among jurisdictions.  
 
Furthermore, where  there are sustainability -related disclosure requirements at the product 
level, there are some commonalities in the areas of disclosure covered by the requirements, but 
there are differences in implementation and scope across jurisdictions. 
 
Approximately half of the responding jurisdictions to the fact -finding exercises do not have 
sustainability-specific rules and instead currently use existing non-sustainability-specific rules 
to address sustainability -related risks and opportunities at the asset manager level and 
sustainability-related products.  The main reasons cite d for this regulatory approach include 
that (i) sustainability-related products comprise only a small portion of the local market, and 
(ii) the existing rules adequately address sustainability -related risks and opportunities at the 
asset manager level and sustainability-related products.  
 
However, the findings also indicate that the majority of member jurisdictions currently rely on 
existing supervisory and enforcement tools to address sustainability -related misconduct, even 
in jurisdictions with sustainability-specific requirements. 
 
The majority of member jurisdictions believe that financial and investor education can play a 
role in sustainable finance, including in building awareness among investors so that they can 
better identify greenwashing, misleading advertising and misinformation, and in supporting the 
mainstreaming of sustainable finance. 
 
The most common financial and investor education initiatives were those dedicated to 
addressing sustainability-related instruments and products, and th e main platform for the 
dissemination of content for financial and investor education  is the internet .  The primary 
audience for financial and investor education initiatives  is retail investors , but there is also 

=== PAGE 6 ===
3 
 
interest in including all market participants and society at large.  Notably, the IOSCO’s annual 
World Investor Week (WIW) this year covers sustainable finance in order to raise awareness 
of the importance of investor education and protection in this area.  
 
The Report contains six chapters, starting with an introduction in Chapter 1 .  Chapter 2  
discusses regulatory approaches relating to asset manager -level practices and r elated 
disclosures.  Asset managers’ sustainability -related practices and firm level disclosures are 
broadly categorised into the following areas, consistent with the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures Recommendations (TCFD Framework):2 governance, strategy, risk 
management, and metrics and targets. Chapter 3 addresses regulatory approaches relating to 
product-level disclosures.  Chapters 2 and 3 also discuss the types, and provides examples, of 
greenwashing at the asset manager and product levels .  Chapter 4  examines the role of 
financial and investor education in sustainable finance and provides an overview of the 
initiatives conducted by regulators.  Chapter 5 addresses existing challenges, including data 
gaps at the corporate level, issues arising  from the proliferation of data and ESG ratings 
providers, lack of consistency in terminology as well as labelling and classification, different 
understandings of materiality, gaps in skills and expertise, and evolving regulatory approaches. 
The synergies with the other work being done by the STF are also explored in this Report. 
Finally, Chapter 6  sets out  IOSCO’s final  recommendations for securities regulators and 
policymakers. 
 
  
 
2  https://www.fsb-tcfd.org/recommendations/  

=== PAGE 7 ===
4 
 
Chapter 1: Introduction 
 
A. Background 
 
In April 2020, IOSCO published its report titled Sustainable Finance and the Role of Securities 
Regulators and IOSCO with the objective of helping market participants address issues related 
to sustainability and climate change. 3  The report revealed that : (i) there are  multiple and 
diverse sustainability frameworks and standards (ii) there is a lack of common definitions of 
sustainable activities , and (iii) there are  investor protection challenges that have emerged, 
including greenwashing.  
 
In addition, the report indicated that many issuers and asset managers operating cross border 
may be subject to different regulatory regimes or participate in multiple regional or 
international third-party initiatives.  The wide variety of regulatory regimes and third-party 
initiatives, often with inconsistent objectives and requirements, may prevent stakeholders from 
fully understanding the risks and opportunities that sustainable business activities entail and 
lead to market fragmentation.  
The report also referred to the w ork of the Network of Central Banks and Supervisors for 
Greening the Financial System (NGFS) on guidelines for climate and environmental related 
risk management for bank and insurer supervisors  and noted that this  could be further 
considered in the context of regulators of asset managers.  
To address these challenges, IOSCO established the STF  with the aim of: (i) improving 
sustainability-related disclosures made by issuers and asset managers; (ii) collaborating with 
other international organi sations to avo id duplicative efforts and enhance coordination of 
relevant regulatory and supervisory approaches; and (iii) conducting case studies and analyses 
of transparency, investor protection and other relevant issues within sustainable finance.  
To achieve these objectives, the STF is carrying out work in three areas: 
• Workstream 1: Sustainability-related disclosures for issuers; 
• Workstream 2: Sustainability-related practices, policies, procedures and disclosures 
for asset managers; and 
• Workstream 3: ESG ratings and ESG data providers.  
 
On 30 June 2021, IOSCO published the Consultation Report,  which was the  outcome of 
Workstream 2.4  To support the Consultation Report, the workstream conducted a number of 
fact-finding exercises, which included:  
 
 
3 FR04/2020 Sustainable Finance and the Role of Securities Regulators and IOSCO – Final Report, Report 
of the Board of IOSCO, 14 April 2020, available at: 
 https://www.iosco.org/library/pubdocs/pdf/IOSCOPD652.pdf. 
4  The members of Workstream 2 are ASIC Australia, FSMA Belgium, CVM Brazil, AMF France, SFC 
Hong Kong, OSC Ontario (Canada), CMVM Portugal, Finansinspektionen Sweden, FMSA Switzerland, 
FCA United Kingdom and the SEC United States.  

=== PAGE 8 ===
5 
 
i) a survey of STF members about regulatory and supervisory approaches relating to 
sustainability-related practices and disclosures at both the asset manager and product 
levels, as well as regulatory and supervisory oversight in this area;5  
ii) a repository on greenwashing and mis -selling cases in STF member jurisdictions and 
the tools or measures used to address the greenwashing or mis-selling, in addition to  
any lessons learned from such cases; and 
iii) a survey of members of STF and the IOSCO Committee on Retail Investors (IOSCO 
Committee 8 (C8)) on current and planned financial and investor education initiatives 
in sustainability-related issues, barriers encountered, the role of financial and investor 
education in sustainable finance and the IOSCO’s potential contributions in this field.6 
 
Building on an analysis of the responses received, the Consultation Report discussed the types, 
and provided examples, of greenwashing at the asset manager and product levels, describes the 
different regulatory approaches taken by STF members to sustainability -related practices by 
asset managers as well as disclosures at both the firm and product levels  and provides an 
overview of the current landscape of  sustainability-related financial and investor education .  
The Consultation Report also discussed challenges in this area and set out proposed 
recommendations to improve sustainability -related practices, policies, procedures, and 
disclosure in the asset management industry. 
 
The Consultation Report was the subject of public consultation, which ended on 15 August 
2021.  A summary of the comments received is included in Annex 2. 
 
This Report sets out  IOSCO’s final recommendations for securities regulators and/or 
policymakers, as applicable.  In addition, the chapters in this Final Report mirror those in the 
Consultation Report except that they have been updated as follows: 
• Chapters 2 and 3 have been updated to reflect changes to the regulatory approaches 
taken by member jurisdictions to sustainability-related practices and disclosures at the 
asset manager and product levels, including summari sing any upcoming plans to add 
or change regulatory requirements or guidance; 
• Chapter 4 has been updated to include upcoming financial and investor education 
initiatives by the IOSCO; 
• Chapter 5 has been updated to reflect developments in the areas identified as challenges 
associated with the growth of the market for sustainability -related products that 
contribute to greenwashing and other investor protection concerns; and 
• Chapter 6 includes the final recommendations, which  have been updated to reflect the 
comments received. 
 
A glossary of terms that are commonly used throughout the Report is included in Annex 1. 
 
B. Synergies with the other STF workstreams 
 
Asset managers feature prominently across all the three IOSCO STF workstreams due to their 
central role in the eco-system of sustainability-related information:  
 
 
5  19 out of a total of 22 regulators responded to this survey. 
6  Twenty-two regulators responded to this survey. 

=== PAGE 9 ===
6 
 
i) Asset managers as users of sustainability-related information;  
ii) Asset managers as licensed financial institutions and fiduciaries of assets en trusted to 
them by clients, for which regulatory and client-oriented reporting is required; and 
iii) Asset managers  as public companies that  prepare corporate -level disclosures for 
shareholders and wider stakeholders. 
 
In particular, asset  management firms that are also public companies produce firm -level 
disclosure for two distinct sets of audiences, namely: (i) shareholders and other stakeholders, 
and (ii) prospective and existing investor clients.  While the latter is covered by this report, the 
former is covered by the Workstream 1 report.7  
 
Asset managers need to procure and process ESG data  as part of the investment management 
process in order to evaluate and monitor companies’ ESG risks, progress and performance.   
Consequently, any firm-level and product-level disclosures made by asset managers relating to 
sustainability are dependent on the quality, reliability and accuracy of ESG data from 
disclosures by corporate issuers and third-party data providers.  
 
Feedback on the Consultation Report leading to this Report emphasi sed a clear need to 
sequence and prioritise corporate disclosure so that asset managers have access to better quality 
corporate issuer-level sustainability-related information as part of their inves tment decision-
making processes and can ultimately provide more meaningful sustainability -related 
disclosures to investors. 
 
The IOSCO, through Workstream 1, has engaged with the International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) Foundation as the IFRS Foundation has worked towards the establishment 
of an International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) , with a view to developing a set of 
global sustainability standards to help meet investor needs and set a sound baseline for 
jurisdictions to consider  when setting or implementing their sustainability -related disclosure 
requirements. 
 
The IOSCO considers that the IFRS Foundation potentially could deliver a global baseline for 
investor-oriented sustainability -related disclosure standards focussed on ente rprise value 
creation which jurisdictions could consider incorporating or building upon as part of their 
mandatory reporting requirements  as appropriate and consistent with their domestic legal 
frameworks.  This could promote international consistency and comparability in sustainability-
related information and also form the basis for the development of an audit and assurance 
framework.  
 
The IOSCO recognises that individual jurisdictions have different domestic arrangements for 
considering, adopting, applying, or otherwise availing of  international standards.  It will be 
important for individual jurisdictions to consider how the common global baseline of standards 
might be adopted, applied, or otherwise utilised within the context of their domestic regulatory 
frameworks in a way that promotes consistent and comparable sustainability disclosures across 
jurisdictions.  
 
 
7   The STF Workstream 1 report was published on 28 June 2021 and available at: 
https://www.iosco.org/library/pubdocs/pdf/IOSCOPD678.pdf   

=== PAGE 10 ===
7 
 
The IOSCO has strongly encouraged the ISSB to leverage the content of existing sustainability-
related reporting principles, frameworks, and guidance, including the TCFD Framework, as it 
develops investor -oriented standards focused on enterprise value, beginning with climate 
change.  
 
The IOSCO has encouraged a ‘building blocks’ approach to establishing a global 
comprehensive corporate reporting system.  This could provide a consistent and comparable 
global baseline of sustainability -related information that is investor -focused and m aterial to 
enterprise value creation, while also providing flexibility for interoperability on reporting 
requirements that capture wider sustainability impacts.  
 
In recent months, the IFRS Foundation’s Technical Readiness Working Group (TRWG) has 
been developing recommendations for a future sustainability -related disclosure standard, 
beginning with climate.  These recommendations would give the ISSB a running start  in its 
development of a sustainability-related disclosure standard, building on the Prototype Climate-
related Disclosure Standard published by a group of the leading sustainability reporting 
organisations in December 2020.8  Through its Technical Expert Group, the IOSCO is engaging 
closely with this work, with a view to assessing whether the TRWG’s recommendations would 
be a sound basis for the ISSB’s development of a sustainability-related disclosure standard.  
 
The IOSCO plans to consider the potential endorsement of future standards issued by the ISSB 
to use for cross -border – and potentially also domestic – purposes to guide issuers’ 
sustainability-related reporting in their jurisdictions.  Potential endorsement will require that 
IOSCO’s expectations regarding strong governance and decision-useful content are satisfied. 
 
These important elements of an ISSB under the IFRS Foundation are covered in the  
Workstream 1 report which elaborates on its vision and expectations for the IFRS Foundation’s 
work towards a global baseline of investor -focussed sustainability standards to improve the 
global consistency, comparability and reliability of sustainability reporting.9  
 
Looking ahead, the IOSCO will also consider the auditability of the future standards, and how 
well existing audit and assurance frameworks would support the assurance of sustainability -
related information under the ISSB’s new standards. 
 
Given the dependency of firm -level and product -level disclosures made by asset managers 
relating to sustainability on disclosures from corporate issuers, the efforts of Workstream 1 to 
improve and progress the harmoni sation of corporate sustainability reporting will directly 
impact disclosures by asset managers.  
 
In addition, IOSCO, through Workstream 3 is also addressing the role of ESG data and rating 
providers given the growing role of ESG ratings and metrics in risk management, investment 
strategies and the development of new market indices. 10  The Consultation Report published 
 
8  https://29kjwb3armds2g3gi4lq2sx1-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/uploads/Reporting-on-
enterprise-value_climate-prototype_Dec20.pdf  
9   Same as footnote 7 
10   The STF Workstream 3 Consultation Report was published on 26 July 2 021 and available at 
https://www.iosco.org/library/pubdocs/pdf/IOSCOPD681.pdf.  The final report is in progress and will 
be available at www.iosco.org once finalised. 

=== PAGE 11 ===
8 
 
by Workstream 3 covered a breadth of topics, such as improving the reliability, comparability 
and interpretability of ESG ratings and data products, transparency of methodology, managing 
conflicts of interest, and interactions between ESG ratings and data providers and companies 
subject to ESG ratings or data products.  We note that the focus of Workstream 3 is essential 
to the work of Workstream 2, given asset managers’ use of ESG ratings  and data. This work 
complements IOSCO’s efforts to address the lack of reliability and comparability of data at the 
corporate level. The window for feedback on Workstream 3’s Consultation Report closed in 
early September and work is ongoing on the final report.  
 
C. Global Developments and Emerging Concerns Regarding Greenwashing  
 
i. Market Developments  
 
According to Bloomberg Intelligence, global ESG assets are on track to exceed USD 53 trillion 
by 2025, which would represent more than a third of the USD 140.5 trillion in projected total 
assets under management. 11  The growth of, and momentum behind, sustainability -related 
products is propelling a paradigm shift in the asset management industry worldwide whereby 
asset managers are now capitalising on sustainability-related opportunities and developing new 
sustainability-related products targeting both retail and institutional investo rs at an 
unprecedented pace. 
 
In addition, t he COVID -19 pandemic has  accelerated investor demand for sustainable 
investments. Global inflows into sustainable funds amounted to USD 41 billion in the first 
quarter of 2020 rising to USD 83 billion in the third with Europe taking the lion’ share of the 
global inflows of sustainable funds.12.  Investments in sustainable products achieved a record 
high during the fourth quarter of 2020.  According to  Morningstar, g lobal inflows into 
sustainable funds increased by 88 percent in the fourth quarter of 2020 to USD 152.3 billion.13  
The largest share of these inflows remained with Europe, with approximately 80 percent , 
followed by the United States at 13.4 percent, up slightly from 12 percent in the third quarter 
of 2020.  The remaining inflows amounted to USD 11.1 billion for Canada, Australia and New 
Zealand, Japan, and Asia, up from USD 9 billion in the second quarter of 2020.14  Notably, in 
the first quarter of 2021, the global sustainable universe attracted USD 185.3 billion in net 
inflows, with Europe making up 79.2 percent of the inflows, followed by the United States at 
11.6 percent.15  
 
Sustainability-related financial products, including green bonds, social and sustainable-linked 
bonds, green mortgage -backed securities, green loans , and sustainability-linked loans, have 
also proliferated the market.  Data from Morningstar revealed that product development in the 
fourth quarter of 2020 hit an all-time high, with 196 new offerings, including 37 in countries 
 
11  https://www.bloomberg.com/professional/blog/esg-assets-may-hit-53-trillion-by-2025-a-third-of-
global-aum/ 
#:~:text=As%20of%20September%2C%20the%20U.S.,%25%20of%20smart%2Dbeta%20flows.&text
=The%20%242.2 %20trillion%20ESG%20debt,of%20the%20past%20five%20years.  
12  https://graphics.reuters.com/GLOBAL-FUNDS/SUSTAINABLE/xlbpgyydgpq/index.html  
13  https://www.morningstar.com/content/dam/marketing/shared/pdfs/Research/Global_ESG_Q4_2020_Fl 
ows.pdf 
14   Same as footnote 8 
15  global-esg-q1-2021-flow-report.pdf (morningstar.com) 

=== PAGE 12 ===
9 
 
outside of Europe and the United States, resulting in the total number of sustainable funds, both 
active and passive, globally increasing to 4,153 by the end of December 2020.  Asset managers 
have also focused on transitioning their conventional products into sustainable products, with 
at least 250 such funds in Europe.  The Morningstar report noted that equity has remained the 
asset class of choice for ESG -oriented investors, who poured USD 82 billion into such funds 
in the last quarter of 2020, which doubled that of the previous quarter  for Europe.16  For the 
first quarter of 2021, equity funds took the majority of inflows in Europe with USD 89.8 billion, 
followed by fixed-income offerings with USD 33.7 billion.17  According to Morningstar, in the 
second quarter of 2021, asset managers continued to transition existing conventional products 
into sustainable products and 177 new sustainable products were launched globally, bringing 
the total number of funds formally considering ESG factors to 4,929.18 
 
ii. Regulatory Developments  
 
In recent years, there has been a growing recognition of the significant economic and financial 
impacts of climate change and environmental, social and governance risks.  There have been 
challenges associated with the growth of ESG investing and sustainability -related products, 
including the need for  consistent, comparable, decision-useful information  and the risk of 
greenwashing.  In addition, stakeholders have called on financial market regulators to act 
decisively in global efforts to achieve the climate change commitments under the Paris 
Agreement. 
 
Regulators and policymakers worldwide have been examining issues relating to sustainable 
finance, including climate change risks,  in their regulatory and supervisory roles  in order to 
address these challenges in line with the domestic regulatory remit. 
 
Voluntary standards and frameworks  have also developed to assist asset managers in 
considering how to incorporate sustainability-related risks and opportunities  into their 
investment processes and sustainability-related products.  There are a number of existing and 
proposed voluntary sustainability-related standards and frameworks,  such as the TCFD 
Framework, Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI) and the Chartered Financial Analyst 
(CFA) Institute ESG Disclosure Standards for Investment Products ,19 which are targeted 
towards many market participants, including asset managers. 
 
The TCFD Framework, which was released in June 2017  and focuses on climate -related 
financial disclosures, is one of the most widely endorsed frameworks by both the financial 
industry and other stakeholders, including governments, regulators, stock exchanges, banks, 
insurers and investors. To date, there ar e over 1,900 TCFD supporters across 78 countries 
around the world.  In addition to recommendations focusing on corporate disclosures, the 
TCFD’s reporting framework also has specific recommendations for asset managers, including 
guidance in the areas of str ategy and risk management.  The TCFD launched a consultation 
 
16  Same as footnote 8 
17  Same as footnote 8 
18  Same as footnote 12 
19  The CFA published an exposure draft in May 2021. The exposure draft can be accessed at 
https://www.cfainstitute.org/-/media/documents/support/ethics/exposure-draft-cfa-institute-esg-
disclosure-standards-for-investment-products.ashx  The final version of the standards is expected to be 
issued in November 2021.   

=== PAGE 13 ===
10 
 
with the aim of better understanding the evolution of forward -looking climate-related metrics 
used and disclosed by asset owners, asset managers, banks, and insurance companies . The 
summary of the consultation feedback was published in March 2021.20  In June 2021, the TCFD 
sought public comment on two further documents: (i) proposed guidance on metrics, targets  
and transition plans, which also proposes amendments to the TCFD’s Annex; and (ii) a separate 
technical supplement on measuring portfolio alignment.  These consultations closed in July  
2021 and the TCFD guidance on ‘Metrics, Targets, and Transition Plans ’ was published in 
October 2021.21  
 
Another private sector initiative with widespread voluntary adoption by institutional investors 
and asset managers is the reporting framework for PRI signatories. Signatories to the PRI 
commit to adopt ing and implementing the six Principles for Responsible Investment , which 
include incorporating ESG issues into investment practice and reporting on their activities and 
progress towards implementing the six p rinciples.  To date, there are close to 4,000 PRI 
signatories around the world, representing US D 120 trillion of assets under management.  
Elements of the TCFD Framework were first incorporated into the 2018 PRI Investor Reporting 
Framework and a majority of these were upgraded to the core sections of the  2021 Investor 
Reporting Framework.  Questions classified as “core” are subject to mandatory reporting, the 
responses to which will be published.  “Core” responses will then be assessed to arrive at an 
overall Assessment Report for PRI signatories.  
 
International organisations of supervisors and regulators have similarly emphasi sed the need 
to promote globally consistent, comparable, and reliable disclosures and have referenced the 
TCFD Framework as a baseline in varying ways.  These include  the NGFS,22 Financial 
Stability Board (FSB),23 and International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS).24 
 
Given the accelerated pace of developments and the interest in  promoting convergence for 
disclosures, several recent announcements from governments and regulators on asset manager 
disclosures have made reference to the TCFD Framework .  The following is a timeline of 
announcements and upcoming changes by various governments and regulators that refer to the 
TCFD Framework. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20  TCFD publications, Summary of the Forward-Looking Financial Metrics Consultation (Mar 2021) 
21  TCFD publications, Guidance on Metrics, Targets, and Transition Plans (Oct 2021) 
22  Guide for Supervisors, available at: 
https://www.ngfs.net/sites/default/files/medias/documents/ngfs_guide_for_supervisors.pdf   
23  FSB December 2020 Press Release available at: https://www.fsb.org/wp-content/uploads/P221220.pdf  
24    Issues Paper on the Implementation of the TCFD Recommendations para 42 , available at: 
https://www.iaisweb.org/file/88991/issues-paper-on-the-implementation-of-the-tcfd-recommendations  

=== PAGE 14 ===
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Green circles represent policies that are currently in force. 
 
iii. Greenwashing 
 
For the purposes of this Report, the term “greenwashing” refers to the practice of 
misrepresenting sustainability-related practices or the sustainability -related features of 
investment products.  In the “race to promote their green credentials, ” some asset managers 
may misleadingly label products as sustainable without meaningful changes in the underlying 
investment strategies or shareholder practices.25  We note that such practices may vary in scope 
and severity , from the inappropriate use of specific sustainability -related term s used in an 
offering document, to misrepresentations about an entity’s sustainability-related commitments, 
to deceptive marketing practices that deliberately misrepresent a product’s sustainable impact. 
 
Various types of greenwashing at both the asset manager and product levels are discussed in 
Chapters 2 and 3 .  Some of  the challenges associated with the growth of the market for 
sustainability-related products that contribute to greenwash ing and other investor protection 
concerns are discussed in Chapter 5. 
 
To the extent that they are available, sustainability-related disclosures at both the asset manager 
and product levels  do not always lead to consistent, comparable, or decision-useful 
information.  All of this, combined with a lack of commonly agreed-upon terminologies and 
investor education on sustainable products , has led to  the risk of  greenwashing and investor 
confusion.  This can result in investors purchasing products that do not meet their expectations 
from a sustainability perspective which, over time, may lead to an undermining of investor 
confidence in this segment of the market, necessitating the IOSCO’s work in this area.  
 
 
25  ShareAction, Point of No Returns  (March 2020), online: https://shareaction.org/research-
resources/point-of-no-returns/.  
Hong Kong, Aug 
2021 
• SFC Hong Kong 
Mandatory TCFD-
aligned disclosures 
by AM. 
 
France, May 2021 
 
• Article 29 of Law 
Energy and Climate 
which complements 
SFDR requirements 
for French investors 
and AM. 
Hong Kong, Dec 
2020 
 
• Mandatory 
TCFD-aligned 
disclosure 
across relevant 
sectors by 2025. 
 
United Kingdom, 
Nov 2020 
• Mandatory 
TCFD-aligned 
disclosures 
across the 
economy by 
2025. 
 
New Zealand, Sept 
2020 
• Mandatory 
TCFD reporting 
for financial 
institutions. 
Singapore, Dec 2020 
 
• MAS Guidelines on 
Environmental Risk 
Management  for 
AM, banks and 
insurers. 
European Union, 
Mar 2021 
 
• SFDR Level 1  
United Kingdom, Jul 
2021 
• UK economy-wide 
sustainability 
disclosures regime, 
building from the 
TCFD framework. 
United 
Kingdom, Jan 
2022 
 
• Mandatory 
TCFD 
aligned 
disclosures 
by AM. 

=== PAGE 15 ===
 
12 
 
Chapter 2: Regulatory Approaches to Sustainability -Related Practices and 
Firm-Level Disclosures by Asset Managers 
 
The demand for sustainable investing is developing at varying paces across different 
jurisdictions.  The impact of climate -related risks, and other sustainability -related risks, is 
manifesting in different ways and with varying intensities across jurisdictions.   In addition, 
disruptions due to the global COVID-19 pandemic have highlighted the fact that sustainability-
related risks are a source of operational and financial risks.  
 
To address these developments, a common starting point for regulators has been to increase 
awareness of the financial consequences associated with non-financial, sustainability-related 
issues, including climate -related risks and opportunities.   The most common reasons for 
regulatory actions in this area, as indicated by STF members, are as follows:    
 
• There is an increased recognition that climate change is a source of financial risk and a 
potential source of instability to the financial system.26   The combination of these two 
factors may encourage financial regulators to take further steps to address these issues.  
 
• There has been a rapid growth in the number and amount of assets under management 
of sustainability-related investment products, and with that growth, increased risks of  
greenwashing.  
 
The current regulatory approaches to sustainability-related practices and firm-level disclosures 
taken by regulators are aimed at addressing these issues. 
 
This chapter: (a) discusses and provides examples of different types of greenwashing at the 
asset manager level; (b) provides an overview of the different regulatory approaches by 
member jurisdictions to sustainability -related practices and disclosures at the asset manager 
level and explains how these approaches can promote greater transparency and accountability 
from asset managers, which can help prevent greenwashing; and (c)  discusses and pro vides 
examples of supervisory and enforcement tools used by member jurisdictions in this area. 
 
A. Types and examples of asset manager-level greenwashing 
 
The following is a non-exhaustive list of possible types of greenwashing that may occur at the 
asset manager level, with examples of each type. 
 
i. Marketing communications that do not accurately reflect the level and/or extent of the 
asset manager’s consideration of sustainability -related risks and opportunities in its 
processes 
 
 
26  FSB, The implications of climate change for financial stability (Nov 2020)  and NGFS, First 
Comprehensive Report (Apr 2019) . There is evidence in some jurisdictions that risk management 
practices within the asset management industry re lating to the systematic evaluation of the financial 
impact of climate-related risks may currently be limited.  For example, see SFC Hong Kong, Survey on 
Integrating Environmental, Social and Governance Factors and Climate Risks, in Asset Management 
(Dec 2019). 

=== PAGE 16 ===
 
13 
 
This potential type of greenwashing may take the form of overstating or providing unclear 
messaging about the level or extent of the asset manager’s commitment, including whe ther it 
is committed to sustainability as an organisation (e.g., ensuring gender diversity at the 
executive level, establishing risk governance structures to assess sustainability-related risks to 
is business strategies) or as an asset manager (e.g., applying ESG strategies to its products), or 
both. 
 
Examples:  
 
An asset manager that does not take into account  ESG criteria in its funds’ investment 
processes discusses on its website and in its marketing materials its sustainability -related 
initiatives (such as, for example, its participation in the TCFD) and views on sustainability, 
without making clear that its funds do not engage in ESG investment strategies or take 
climate-related risks into account. 
 
An asset manager describes its sustainability-related commitments (e.g., implementation of 
exclusion policies, development of green funds) without clarifying the scope of these 
commitments, the potential limitations and their actual impact on the asset manager’s overall 
business and strategy.    
 
ii. Failure of asset manager to meet its public sustainability-related commitments  
 
Another possible type of greenwashing involves asset managers failing to meet their public 
sustainability-related commitments.  An asset manager may use public sustainability -related 
commitments for positive media coverage or public relations purposes but fail to meet those 
commitments or demonstrate its progress towards meeting those commitments. 
 
A ranking and analysis of 75 of the world’s largest asset managers’ approaches to responsible 
investment in March 2020 found that while all 75 of the asset managers were signatories to the 
PRI, 51 percent of the managers showed little evidence of appropriately integrating responsible 
investment across their assets, indicating that some PRI signatories merely use the initiative as 
a “tick box exercise.”27  The same report also found that of the asset managers that expressed 
support for the TCFD framework but that had not yet published a report in accordance with the 
framework, only 38 percent of them indicated that they were planning to do so in the next 
reporting year, suggesting that public endorsement of the TCFD framework may not 
necessarily be an indication of real action by asset managers. 
 
A separate study of active managers which are PRI signatories found that only a small number 
of funds improved t heir fund -level ESG scores, while many others use the PRI status to 
successfully attract capital without making notable changes in their investment holdings that 
impact fund-level ESG scores.28  
 
 
27   ShareAction, Point of No Returns: A ranking of 75 of the world’s largest asset managers’ approaches to 
responsible investment , March 2020  https://shareaction.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Point-of-no-
Returns.pdf  
28   SSRN, Kim, Yoon (2020), Analyzing Active Managers' Commitment to ESG: Evidence from United 
Nations Principles for Responsible Investment 

=== PAGE 17 ===
 
14 
 
A third study of active managers which are rated PRI A+ foun d that while asset managers 
disclose that they support the TCFD and integrate climate change into investment processes, 
they often do not disclose their policies on fossil fuels or commit to robust decarboni sation 
strategies such as setting Science-Based Targets or otherwise aligning their portfolios with the 
Paris Agreement.29 
 
Example:  
 
An asset manager makes public commitments to sustainability -related disclosure 
frameworks for positive media coverage but does not comply with those frameworks on an 
ongoing basis. 
 
B. Regulatory approaches to sustainability-related practices and disclosure at the asset 
manager level 
 
This subsection provides an overview of the scope and content of the different regulatory 
approaches by member jurisdictions to sustainability -related practices and disclosure at the 
asset manager level and explains how these approaches can promote greater  transparency and 
accountability from asset managers, which may help prevent greenwashing. 
 
i. Degree of compulsion 
 
A range of sustainability-specific regulatory approaches were observed in the responses to our 
survey of member jurisdictions.  Some of the regulatory frameworks for firm -level 
sustainability-related practices and disclosure are based on existing non-sustainability-specific 
rules while others have adopted new sustainability-specific legislation or guidance.  
 
Across the survey categories of governance, investment management and risk management, 
half of the respondents, including those in both emerging and d eveloped markets, indicated 
that there were no sustainability-specific rules in place in their respective jurisdictions.  
 
The main reason cited by these jurisdictions for why they do not have sustainability -specific 
rules at the asset manager firm level is because their existing regulatory regimes already include 
expectations at the asset manager level that are applicable to sustainability -related practices 
and disclosures.  Some respondents also indicated that the current absence of sustainability -
specific rules can be explained by a lack of global standards and definitions in this area, nascent 
sustainable investing markets and regulators being cognizant of not overburdening an industry 
under development.  
 
To supplement the approach of using existing non -sustainability-specific rules, some of the 
qualitative measures that have been utilised by such jurisdictions include public messaging and 
engagement with asset managers on strengthening their investment and risk management 
processes to consider climate-related risks and opportunities.  
 
 
 
 
29   Lee, K. and Gauthier, M. [2021], 2021 Review of Responsible Investment Practices, WWF. 

=== PAGE 18 ===
 
15 
 
Regional trends - Findings from the IOSCO Asia Pacific Regional Committee’s 
Sustainable Finance Working Group (APRC SFWG)  
 
The APRC SFWG undertook a survey of member jurisdictions on their regulatory 
approaches to sustainable finance.  The APRC SFWG surve y found that a number of 
jurisdictions, including Hong Kong, Japan, and Singapore (who are members of the IOSCO 
STF), expect asset managers to consider sustainable finance matters in their identification, 
assessment and management of risks. Examples from these jurisdictions will be discussed in 
this chapter. 
 
Indonesia’s Otoritas Jasa Keuangan (OJK) requires asset managers to prepare and submit a 
Sustainable Finance Action plan which covers, as a minimum: (i) the development of 
products and/o r services, (ii) internal capacity building of financial services institutions 
(FSIs), or (iii) the adjustment of the organisation, risk management, governance, and/or 
standard operating procedures of FSIs which embrace sustainable finance principles.  
  
There are different levels of compulsion in the approaches taken by jurisdictions where 
sustainability-specific rules have been put in place.  Within STF membership we observed a 
range of regulatory approaches, from voluntary to comply or explain to mandatory. 
 
The findings indicate that where securities regulators have put in place sustainability -specific 
requirements for asset managers, the majority of these regulatory approaches have been 
implemented on a comply-or-explain, or mandatory basis.   
 
For jur isdictions relying on existing rules, some regulators have developed voluntary 
guidelines or rely on stewardship codes to communicate supervisory expectations concerning 
sustainability-related issues in asset management. 
 
The following diagram illustrates the range of approaches available to regulators contemplating 
their policy options:  
 
 
a. Voluntary Approach: 
 
For jurisdictions relying on existing rules, some regulators have developed voluntary 
guidelines or rely on stewardship codes to communicate supervisory expectations concerning 
sustainability-related issues in asset management.  
 


=== PAGE 19 ===
 
16 
 
The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) issued guidelines in December 2020 on 
environmental risk management for in -scope asset managers.  MAS’ guidelines set out 
principles or “best practice standards” that govern the conduct of specified institutions or 
persons.30  
 
In Japan, the Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors, also known as Japan’s 
Stewardship Code, were updated in 2020 to include considerations of sustainability 31 that are 
consistent with institutional investors’ investment management strategies.  Commitment to the 
Japan Stewardship Code is voluntary, and the code itself is neither law nor legally binding. 
However, signatories are expected to provide transparency of their adherence to the code on a 
comply-or-explain basis.  
 
b. Comply or Explain Approach: 
 
A number of jurisdictions use a comply or explain approach. 
 
In France, Article 173-VI of the Energy Transition and Green Growth Law, which is aimed at 
increasing disclosure of climate-related and other ESG risks by financial institutions as well as 
aligning institutional investor portfolios with both French and international climate strategy , 
uses a comply-or-explain approach.  Article 29 of the Law on Energy and Climate ,32 which 
updated the  French framework with further transparency requirements imposed on asset 
managers, also uses a comply -or-explain approach.  This update complement s the European 
Union (EU) Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation ( SFDR) requirements  (which are 
further described below), strengthening disclosures on climate-related risks and adding a new 
focus on biodiversity -related issues. It also structures disclos ure around the TCFD pillars of 
strategy, governance, risk management and metrics and targets. 
 
In addition, t he Financial Conduct Authority United Kingdom (the FCA UK), through its 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS), requires licensed firms to disclose their 
commitment to the Financial Reporting Council’s Stewardship Code on a comply -or-explain 
basis.33 In-scope investment management firms, as signatories to the Stewardship Code, are 
expected to take into account material ESG factors, including climate change, when fulfilling 
their stewardship responsibilities.  Firms are required to meet application requirements set out 
by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) before they are accepted as signatories to the 
Stewardship Code. Applicants are requir ed to submit a stewardship report that explains how 
they have applied all twelve principles and responded to the reporting expectations for the 
reporting period. Signatory reporting against the UK Stewardship Code is on an “apply -and-
explain” basis.34  
 
30  MAS, Guidelines, Supervisory Approach and Regulatory Instruments (December 2020) 
31   Sustainability defined as medium to long -term sustainability including ESG factors and the 17 UN 
Sustainable Development Goals, Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors (Mar 2020) 
32  https://www.tresor.economie.gouv.fr/Articles/2021/06/08/publication-of-the-implementing-decree-of-
article-29-of-the-energy-climate-law-on-non-financial-reporting-by-market-players  
33    COBS 2.2.3: Disclosure of commitment to the Financial Reporting Council’s Stewardship Code 
34  The UK Stewardship Code 2020 .  On  6 September 2021, the FRC publis hed a list of successful 
signatories to the 2020 Stewardship Code, following a  rigorous review process that saw 125 of the 189 
that had applied make the list of successful signatories.    

=== PAGE 20 ===
 
17 
 
c. Mandatory Approach: 
 
Several member jurisdictions have mandatory requirements in place through legislation or 
regulatory guidance.  
 
The SFDR35is an example of the mandatory approach applied through legislative action.  At of 
the time of publication of this report, only the principle-based Level 1 disclosures are in force. 
The regulatory technical standards (RTS) that make up the Level 2 disclosures are expected to 
come into force in July 2022.36  Under the SFDR, all financial market participants, including 
asset managers, must disclose their policies on the integration of sustainability risks 37 in their 
investment decision-making process. Financial market participants are also required to disclose 
whether they consider “ principal adverse impacts” of investment decisions on sustainability 
factors, with more detailed disclosures required for large firms.  
 
In August 2021, the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong (SFC Hong Kong) 
issued amendments to the Fund Manager Code of Conduct (FMCC) and a circular setting out 
expected standards for fund managers managing collective investment schemes (CIS) to take 
climate-related risks into consideration in their investment and risk management processe s as 
well as to make appropriate disclosures.  The SFC has adopted a two -tier approach for the 
requirements: (1) all fund managers managing CIS will be required to adhere with the baseline 
requirements covering governance, investment management, risk management, and disclosure; 
and (2) larger size fund managers with monthly CIS assets under management of HK$ 8 billion 
(approximately USD 1.03 billion) or above will be required to adhere with both the baseline 
requirements and the enhanced standards, which are  additional requirements relating to risk 
management and disclosure. 
 
ii. Principle of Proportionality  
 
When developing supervisory expectations and new regulations, certain financial regulators 
have considered the principle of proportionality to phase in certain rule changes or to reduce 
the cost of compliance for smaller, less resourced firms.  The proport ionality approach may 
take into account workforce size (e.g., number of staff), 38 financial footprint (e.g., assets under 
management),39 risk profile and the interconnectedness of the firm. 
 
 
35  https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:32019R2088 
36  https://www.esma.europa.eu/sites/default/files/library/com_letter_to_ep_and_council_sfdr_rts.pdf 
37  ‘Sustainability risk’ means an environmental, social or governance event or condition that, if it occurs, 
could cause an actual or a potential material negative impact on the value of the investment, SFDR Article 
2 (22) 
38  In the EU, under the SFDR, firms exceeding 500 employees must provide investors with disclosure of 
the principal adverse impacts of their investment decisions and advice on sustainability factors relating 
to: (i) the climate and the environment, and (ii) social and employee matters, respect for human rights, 
anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters. Firms with fewer than 500 employees may choose to comply or 
explain. 
 
39  The SFC Hong Kong, in the Consultation Conclusions on the Management and Disclosure of Climate -
related Risks by Fund Managers, required that large fund managers with CIS AUM equal to or exceeding 
HK$ 8 billion (approximately USD 1.03 billion) be subject to enhanced standards in addition to the 
baseline requirements that apply to all fund managers. 

=== PAGE 21 ===
 
18 
 
When implemented, proportionality has generally involved: (i) a phased transition period, 
where smaller firms are granted an extended period for transition; and (ii) for larger firms, 
supervisory expectations of a more robust approach towards sustainability -related risks, 
accompanied by more detailed disclosures.  Howe ver, it is worth noting that in the context of 
climate-related risks, a smaller financial institution may not necessarily be less exposed to these 
risks.  Depending on the business model and investments held, smaller firms may be 
concentrated in a specific  asset class, sector or geographical region that could be adversely 
impacted by climate-related risks. 
 
iii.  Scope of Sustainability   
 
Approximately half of the respondents reported that they have put policies in place to address 
climate and environmental issues in addition to other sustainability-related issues.  While there 
are differences in the scope of sustainability, many respondents reported that they utilise a 
climate-first approach with an emphasis on the financial impact of climate change. Some 
respondents indicated that their approach goes further to include dimensions of environmental 
and societal impact.   
 
Examples range from a climate -first approach by the SFC Hong Kong to MAS’s Guidelines, 
which extend the scope of reporting beyond climate to other environmental issues including 
biodiversity, pollution and land use.  Another example is the SFDR, under which sustainability 
factors encompass environmental, social and employee matters, respect for human rights, anti-
corruption and anti-bribery matters. 
 
iv. Content of Requirements 
 
The content of regulatory and supervisory expectations and requirements relating to 
sustainability-related practices and disclosure at the asset manager level generally cover four 
major areas: (a) governance; (b) investment strategy; (c) risk management; and (d) metrics and 
tools, aligning with the TCFD framework for asset managers’ disclosure.  
 
This subsection discusses the content of members’ current regulatory and supervisory 
expectations and requirements. It also describes plans among members to add to, or change, 
such expectations and requirements, as multiple jurisdictions are in the process of examining 
best practices, monitoring international developments in reporting standards and consi dering 
the need for sustainability -specific rules.  Certain jurisdictions are currently evaluating the 
contours of potential sustainability-specific rules.40   
 
a. Governance 
 
The results from our survey indicate that governance requirements are the most common 
among responding member jurisdictions that have sustainability -specific requirements at the 
asset manager level.  
 
 
40  For instance, in the United States, the Securities and Exchange Commission published its 2021 Agency 
Rule list, which notes that its staff is considering recommending that the Commission propose rules for 
investment companies and investment advisers related to ESG factors, including ESG claims and related 
disclosures.  
 

=== PAGE 22 ===
 
19 
 
Governance structures help identify and assess sustaina bility-related opportunities and risks 
consistently throughout the organisation.  Boards and senior management play critical roles in 
determining an asset manager’s strategies, business plans and product offerings.  These include 
identifying sustainability -related risks and opportunities over the short and long term, 
evaluating the actual and potential impact of these risks and opportunities on the asset 
manager’s strategies, business plans and products, and providing oversight of the 
organisation’s progress towards sustainability-related goals. 
 
Governance disclosures enable clients of the asset manager to evaluate whether the asset 
manager’s commitment to sustainability receives appropriate board and management attention, 
and whether sustainability-related practices are embedded into the organisation’s governance 
structure and management processes, which can help prevent greenwashing at the asset 
manager level.  
 
As discussed in Chapter 1, where an asset manager is a public company, it has two distinct 
audiences for its non -financial disclosures:41 (i) shareholders and other stakeholders; and (ii) 
asset manager’s clients. Governance disclosures can address the informational needs of both 
audiences, and asset managers may benefit from cost efficiencies and ensure consistency by 
reporting the same information for both audiences.  
 
Climate-related disclosure requirements for listed companies have seen rapid developments in 
recent years.  This is discussed extensively in the report by the STF’s Workstream 1 .  To the 
extent that the asset manager is also a listed company, the asset manager is subject to corporate 
governance disclosure requirements under regulatory requirements and/or listing rules.  
 
In addition to general corporate governance disclosure requ irements for asset managers that 
are public companies, the majority of jurisdictions also have in place legislation, regulatory 
guidelines, codes or other forms of rules relating to the governance and related disclosures of 
firms licensed to conduct invest ment management activities.  These existing rules generally 
aim to ensure that asset managers operate in the best interest of their clients, effectively manage 
any conflicts of interest, and have the policies and procedures in place to identify, assess, an d 
disclose risks, financial or otherwise, that the asset manager and the assets that it manages are 
exposed to. 
 
For example, in the United States, the Investment Company Act of 1940  regulations require a 
fund’s board to adopt written policies and procedures as part of its compliance programme.  To 
the extent that a fund has established policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent 
violations of the federal securities laws relating to sustainability -related disclosures and 
governance, a fund’s boar d is tasked with reviewing and approving such policies and 
procedures. Rule 38a-1 also requires that the adequacy of a fund’s policies and procedures be 
reviewed annually and that the fund designate a Chief Compliance Officer who is responsible 
for administering the fund’s policies and procedures. 
 
In jurisdictions with sustainability-specific rules, there are a variety of regulatory approaches. 
For example, in December 2019, the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority of Germany 
 
41  Cross reference discussion in Introduction  
 

=== PAGE 23 ===
 
20 
 
(BaFin) issued guidance 42 regarding sustainability risks for financial institutions, including 
asset managers.  The guidance sets out expectations for the management board of institutions 
to develop an understanding of, and allocate responsibilities for managing, material 
sustainability risks, including physical and transition risks, and their potential impact on the 
entity’s business. 
 
In December 2020, MAS issued guidelines to set out sound environmental risk management 
practices that asset managers may adopt.   These include expect ations for boards and senior 
management to maintain effective oversight of the asset managers’ environmental risk 
management and disclosure, as well as the integration of environmental risk into the asset 
manager’s investment risk management framework.  
 
In the UK, the governance expectations in relation to stewardship are outlined predominantly 
in the UK Stewardship Code (2020).  While the UK Stewardship Code is overseen by the FRC, 
the FCA UK expects their licensed asset managers to disclose the nature of their commitment 
to the Stewardship Code, or where it does not commit to the Code, its alternative investment 
strategy. 
 
In August 2021, the SFC Hong Kong amended the FMCC and issued a circular requiring the 
board and senior management of fund managers t o oversee the implementation of climate -
related considerations into investment and risk management processes and establish 
satisfactory controls and procedures to manage climate-related risks associated with the funds 
under management. The new requirements will be implemented in phases, with the first phase 
to begin in August 2022 for larger size fund managers and November 2022 for other fund 
managers.  
 
Plans to add or change requirements 
 
The Securities Commission Malaysia (SC Malaysia) will be enhancing its regulatory 
framework on corporate governance for capital market intermediaries, including asset 
managers.  The enhancement will include issuing corporate governance guidelines for capital 
market intermediaries that require the consideration of  material sustainability risks and 
opportunities in the intermediaries’ strategic plan. 
 
The FCA UK, as a member of the UK joint regulator and government TCF D Taskforce, 
published a consultation paper in June 2021 proposing mandatory entity - and product-level 
TCFD-aligned disclosure rules for asset managers, life insurers and FCA -regulated pension 
providers.43  The consultation closed in September 2021.  The FCA is aiming to finalise the 
rules by the end of 2021, with the aim of bringing the new obligations into force on a phased 
basis from 1 January 2022, beginning with the largest firms. 
 
b. Investment Strategy  
 
Sustainability-related requirements relating to investment strategy practices and disclosure 
address how material sustainability-related risks and opportunities are factored into the asset 
 
42  BaFin, Sustainability risks: BaFin publishes Guidance Notice (Dec 2019)  
43  Gov.uk, page 26, Interim Report of the UK’s Joint Government Regulator TCFD Taskforce (Nov 2020) 

=== PAGE 24 ===
 
21 
 
manager’s investment strategies and investment process, including, where relevant, the data 
and methodologies used. 
 
Practices in this area are important to  the management of client assets in accordance with 
sustainability-related commitments at both the asset manager and product levels.  
 
Sustainability-related disclosures relating to investment strategy serve a variety of important 
purposes.  For instance, they provide clients with transparency of how sustainability -related 
risks and opportunities are managed in their investments and allow clients to evaluate whether 
these practices support the sustainability -related claims and commitments made by the asset 
manager.  In addition, such disclosures can provide regulators with information to help assess 
if asset managers have implemented the practices and policies that are described in their public 
commitments and investor communications in order to determine the accuracy of these claims.  
 
As such, both practices and disclosures in this area can help prevent greenwashing at the asset 
manager and product levels. 
 
A number of member jurisdictions apply existing non -sustainability-specific rules in this area 
to asset managers that are engaged in sustainability investing. 
 
Other jurisdictions have sustainability -specific rules in this area.  For example, the SFDR 
requires that asset managers consider and document the relevance of sustainability risks when 
conducting due diligence on investments. Asset managers are required t o include disclosures 
on their websites relating to policies that address the integration of sustainability risks into the 
asset manager’s investment decision making process or advice. Where sustainability -related 
risks are not deemed relevant, an explanat ion must be provided.  The SFDR also sets out 
principles of disclosures on sustainability considerations in investment decisions.44 
 
Another example is the MAS’ Guidelines on Environmental Risk Management, which were 
issued in December 2020, and which lay out expectations for asset managers to embed relevant 
environmental risk considerations in their research and portfolio construction processes if they 
have assessed them to be material.  
 
As per the aforementioned amendments to the FMCC and the expected standards set out in the 
circular, the SFC Hong Kong will require in scope fund managers to adopt processes to identify 
the relevance and materiality of climate -related risks and consider how such risks will affect 
their strategies and factor into their inve stment management processes . When assessing the 
materiality of the impact of climate-related risks on an investment strategy or a fund, fund 
managers are advised to adopt an approach that can be qualitative, quantitative or some 
combination of both, and commensurate with the nature, size, complexity and risk profiles of 
their firms and the investment strategies adopted by the funds. Fund managers are expected to 
maintain appropriate internal records to demonstrate that they have assessed the materiality of 
the risks and disclose exceptions where climate-related risks are assessed to be irrelevant.  
 
Plans to add or change requirements 
 
 
44  Refer to Articles 3 and 4 of the SFDR. 

=== PAGE 25 ===
 
22 
 
As noted earlier, the FCA UK published its consultation  on entity- and product-level TCFD-
aligned disclosure rules for asset managers, life insurers, and FCA  UK-regulated pension 
providers in  and aims to finalise its rules by the end of the year.  Building on UK’s 
implementation of the TCFD Framework, the UK Government announced plans in July 2021 
to introduce a sustainability disclosures regime requiring corporates and financial services 
firms across the economy to disclose their risks and opportunities from, and impact on, 
sustainability matters, including at the investment product level. 
 
c. Risk Management 
 
Risk management , such as  processes for identifying, assessing, monitoring, and managing 
material investment and operational risks, is a core area of responsibility for asset managers.  
 
As sustainability-related issues have become more important, there has been a recognition that 
there is a need for increased oversight of processes for the assessment and management of 
sustainability-related risks, including in particular, climate risks.  Sustainability-related risks 
can manifest themselves through financial risks, such as credit, market and liquidity risks.  
There may also be reputation and business risks for asset managers who do not meet the 
sustainability-focused expectations of investors.  As such, sustainability -related risk 
management practices should not necessarily be viewed as standalone practices and may need 
to be integrated into existing risk infrastructure and processes in order to be effective. Such 
practices may include scenario analysis and stress testing.  
 
Disclosures in this area provide investors with transparency  into how asset managers are 
addressing sustainability in their risk management processes and may  help investors and 
regulators assess whether an asset manager’s risk management practices support their 
sustainability-related claims and disclosures.  This could help prevent greenwashing at the asset 
manager level. 
 
The majority of jurisdictions have general requirements relating to risk management that are 
not specific to sustainability and that apply to all asset managers. For example, in Ontario and 
Québec (Canada), there are requirements relating to a system of controls and supe rvision to 
manage risks at the asset manager level.  
 
Similarly, licensed asset managers in Australia have an ongoing obligation to maintain 
adequate risk management systems under the Corporations Act. 45  The Australian Securities 
and Investments Commission (ASIC) has published guidance46 on how to meet this obligation, 
which suggests that Responsible Entities can provide “additional transparency to investors 
about its arrangements by publicly disclosing a summary of the key aspects of its risk 
management systems—for example, on its website or in its annual report.” 
 
In the United States, registered investment advisers must adopt compliance policies and 
procedures that are reasonably designed to prevent violations of the Investment Advisers Act 
of 1940  and t he rules adopted thereunder .  In designing these policies and procedures, an 
investment adviser must first identify conflicts and other compliance factors creating risk 
exposure for the firm and its clients in light of the firm's particular operations, and then design 
 
45   Australian Government, Section 912A Corporations Act 
46   ASIC, Regulatory Guide 259: Risk management systems of responsible entities (RG 259)  

=== PAGE 26 ===
 
23 
 
policies and procedures that address those risks. To the extent that an investment adviser has 
established a process to measure and monitor sustainability risks as part of these policies and 
procedures, the Chief Compliance Officer is required to administer that policy and conduct an 
annual review of the adequacy and effectiveness of such policy. 
Some jurisdictions have sustainability -specific requirements relating to risk management.  In 
Europe, new EU Delegated Acts came into force in August 2021 , which amend existing 
legislation (Undertakings for the Collective Investment in Transferable Securities  Directive, 
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive  and Markets in Financial Inst ruments 
Directive) and seek to integrate sustainability risks into the management of funds.  
 
Some sustainability-specific requirements in this area have been issued in the form of guidance, 
codes of conduct or stewardship codes. We note that requirements regarding risk disclosures 
are also imposed at the product level, which are discussed in greater detail in Chapter 3. 
 
As discussed above, BaFin’s  Guidance Notice on sustainability risks published in December 
2019 contains descriptions of good practices at  BaFin supervised entities, including asset 
management companies.  These requirements include the integration of sustainability -related 
risks into risk identification, management and control processes, as well as the assessment of 
existing internal stress testing or scenario analysis tools to adequately reflect sustainability -
related risks.  
 
BaFin’s Guidance Notice states that stress tests may include specific sensitivity and scenario 
analyses to examine the entity’s ability to withstand adverse events or scenarios caused by 
physical and transition risks and should also take account of scenarios reflecting plausible 
future developments and make greater use of long -term scenario analyses.  The outcomes of 
stress tests and scenario analyses may be interpreted on a quantitative basis, and depending on 
the background of the supervised entity, on a qualitative basis.  The outcomes of these methods 
may thus serve as the starting point for descriptive and narrative elements. 
 
In the Guidelines issued by MAS in December 2020, MAS recognised that stewardship is one 
of the key levers for asset managers to manage environmental risk. Asset managers are 
encouraged to incorporate environmental risk considerations into their stewardship 
frameworks, as sound stewardship prac tices can help shape the corporate behaviour of the 
companies that they invest in through direct or collective engagement, or proxy voting.  Asset 
managers are expected to maintain proper documentation to support their engagement efforts 
and report on their stewardship initiatives.  
 
The SFC Hong Kong amended the FMCC to include climate-related risks as one of the types 
of risks that fund managers should incorporate into their existing risk management framework 
and ensure that they are treated in the same m anner as other risks.  The SFC Hong Kong  
requires fund managers to establish and maintain effective systems, policies, and procedures 
to: (i) identify relevant climate -related risks; (ii) assess the potential impact of the identified 
risks on each investme nt strategy and fund; and (iii) monitor and manage those risks on an 
ongoing basis. As part of the enhanced standards, the SFC Hong Kong also requires larger fund 
managers to assess the relevance and utility of scenario analysis in evaluating the resilience of 
investment strategies to climate -related risks under different climate pathways.  Large fund 
managers are expected to implement scenario analysis within  a reasonable timeframe if the 
assessment result is deemed to be relevant and useful.  Larger fund managers who are 

=== PAGE 27 ===
 
24 
 
responsible for the overall operation of the fund are also required to disclose their engagement 
policies. 
 
Plans to add or change requirements  
 
As discussed above, the FCA UK published its consultation on entity - and product -level 
TCFD-aligned disclosure rules for asset managers, life insurers, and FCA -regulated pension 
providers in June 2021.  Building on the UK’s implementation of the TCFD Framework, the 
UK government announced plans to introduce a sustainability disclosures regime requiring 
corporates and financial services firms across the economy to disclose , among other things,  
their risks from sustainability matters, including at the investment product level. 
 
d. Metrics and Targets 
 
Metrics and targets can be broadly categorised as point -in-time measurements or ‘backward -
looking’ metrics and estimated or ‘forward-looking’ metrics or targets.  
 
Disclosure of metrics and targets, and the methodologies underpinning them, can provide 
investors and regulators with information to help them understand how asset managers measure 
and monitor sustainability -related risks and opportunities.  Further, it can inform investors 
about the sustainability-related impact financed by, or as a result of, their investment holdings, 
as well as provide information about how well asset managers are meeting their sustainability-
related objectives. 
 
Of particular relevance in this developing space of metrics and targets, are several industry 
initiatives, including the TCFD consultation on forward-looking financial sector metrics, which 
concluded in March 2021. 47 The TCFD’s public consultation is particularly relevant as 
reference has been made to the TCFD Framework by an increasing number of securities 
regulators, as discussed in Chapter 1 of this report, as well as by other financial regulators 
under the NGFS,48 and the Financial Stability Board49 (the FSB).  The TCFD released broader, 
additional draft guidance on metrics and targets, as well as portfolio alignment tools, for further 
market review in June 2021 and the TCFD guidance on ‘Metrics, Targets, and Transition Plan’s 
was published in October 2021. 50 
 
The growing momentum of net-zero commitments within the investment management industry 
has, in particular, highlighted the need to clarify methodologies behind target -setting by 
financial institutions and net -zero strategies for investment portfolios. The Science Based 
Targets Initiative and the Net -Zero Investment Framework may shed some light in t his 
emerging area.   
 
 
47   Same as footnote 20 
48   NGFS, Recommendation n°5, Achieving robust and internationally consistent climate and environment-
related disclosure: The NGFS emphasises the imp ortance of a robust and internationally consistent 
climate and environmental disclosure framework. NGFS members collectively pledge their support for 
the recommendations of the TCFD, First Comprehensive Report (Apr 2019)  
49   FSB, FSB encourages the IFRS Foundation and authorities to use TCFD’s recommendations as the basis 
for climate-related financial risk disclosures (Dec 2020) 
50  Same as footnote 21 

=== PAGE 28 ===
 
25 
 
The SFC Hong Kong, in the aforementioned circular, requires larger fund managers, as part of 
the enhanced standards , to take reasonable steps to identify the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions associated with their funds’ underlying investments where data is available or can 
be reasonably estimated and define the calculation methodology and underlying assumptions. 
Larger fund managers who are responsible for the overall operation of the fund are required to 
disclose the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions associated with their funds’ underlying 
investments and indicate the calculation methodology, underlying assumptions and limitations, 
along with the proportion of investments (in relation to the net asset value of funds) which are 
assessed or covered.  
 
Plans to add or change requirements  
 
In February 2021, the European Banking Authority, European Insurance and Occupational 
Pensions Authority and European Securities and Markets Authority (the European Supervisory 
Authorities or ESAs) published their final report that includes the draft RTS on the content, 
methodologies, and presentation of disclosures in accordance with the SFDR.51  The draft RTS 
include a mandatory reporting tem plate to be used for the mandatory statement on principal 
adverse impacts of investment decisions on sustainability factors.  The disclosures are focused 
on a set of indicators for adverse impacts related to the climate and environment, as well as 
social and employee matters, respect for human rights, anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters. 
These indicators are divided into a core set of universal mandatory indicators that lead to 
principal adverse impacts of investment decisions on sustainability factors, irrespective of the 
result of the assessment by the financial market participant, and additional opt-in indicators for 
environmental and social factors, to be used to identify, assess, and prioritise additional 
principal adverse impacts.  This requirement would enable investors and prospective investors 
to understand and compare the approaches to sustainable investment taken by different 
financial market participants so that they can make more informed investment decisions.  
Following a delay, the ESAs endeavour to apply the RTS on 01 July 2022.  
 
As discussed above, the FCA UK published its consultation on entity - and product -level 
TCFD-aligned disclosure rules for asset managers, life insurers, and FCA  UK-regulated 
pension providers in June 2021. Building on the UK’s implementation of the TCFD 
Framework, the  UK government announced plans to introduce a sustainability disclosures 
regime requiring corporates and financial services firms across the economy to disclose their 
risks and opportunities from, and impact on, sustainability matters, including metrics and 
targets as appropriate and where relevant. The disclosures regime would include disclosures at 
the investment product level.  
 
In addition to regulatory developments, the TCFD published its summary of its consultation52 
on forward -looking financial sector metrics and , later on in October 2021  published the 
guidance on ‘Metrics, Targets, and Transition Plans.’ 53  
 
v. Supervisory and Enforcement tools 
 
 
51   ESMA, Final Report on draft Regulatory Standards (Feb 2021) 
52   Same as footnote 20 
53  Same as footnote 21 

=== PAGE 29 ===
 
26 
 
Securities regulators are empowered by securities laws and regulation to discipline offenders 
in order to combat misconduct, including in the area of sustainability, such as providing false 
and misleading information relating to an asset manager’s or produ ct’s commitment to 
sustainability. 
 
The responses to our survey indicate that the majority of member jurisdictions rely on existing 
supervisory and enforcement tools to address sustainability -related misconduct, even in 
jurisdictions with sustainability-specific requirements. 
 
For example, in Hong Kong, the Securities and Futures Ordinance (SFO) is the main piece of 
legislation that sets out the powers, roles and responsibilities of the SFC Hong Kong. Under 
the SFO, the SFC Hong Kong may publish codes or guidelines to provide guidance on various 
matters, and the FMCC is one such code.  A failure to comply with the FMCC or other codes 
may be taken into account in considering whether the fund manager is a fit and proper person 
to remain licensed.  As such, a failure to comply could result in a person losing their licence to 
carry out a regulated activity in Hong Kong and be subject to disciplinary action. 
 
In Singapore, MAS -administered fund laws and regulations apply to all funds, including 
sustainability-related funds, and MAS is empowered to take action in an event of contravention, 
such as making false and misleading sustainability -focused disclosures in  an offering 
document. 
 
The ASIC in Australia has general supervisory tools that can be applied to address compliance 
with, and breaches of, regulatory requirements by asset managers in the area of sustainability 
or by sustainability -related products. Resp onsible entities (REs) and superannuation trustees 
are required to maintain an Australian Financial Services (AFS) licence. The licence imposes 
restrictions including requirements to comply with the financial services laws under the 
Corporations Act.  ASIC  also has wide powers to enforce compliance with the provisions in 
the Corporations Act and ASIC Act that apply to collective investment schemes, including 
sustainability-related products.  These include, but are not limited to, the cancellation, variation 
or suspension of AFS licences of REs and superannuation trustees, and the taking of 
enforcement action, civil and criminal, including the use of bans on directors of REs, fines and 
imprisonment. 
 
Regulators have also started to review asset managers’ proc esses and practices against their 
disclosures, claims and other public commitments relating to sustainability. 
 
For example, the Autorité des marchés financiers of France  (AMF France) 54 has carried out 
thematic reviews on asset management firms to assess c ompliance with business conduct and 
disclosure requirements. The AMF France’s 2019 thematic review focused on asset 
management companies with sustainable investment funds, with a review of existing processes 
and their consistency with disclosures. Italy’s Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa 
(Consob) carries out periodic reviews using a risk -based assessment framework.  Meanwhile, 
SC Malaysia has conducted a questionnaire -based review to understand asset managers’ 
current practices in incorporati ng sustainability -related considerations within their business 
and processes, particularly in investment management. 
 
54  https://www.amf-france.org/en/news-publications/publications/spot-inspection-campaigns/summary-
spot-inspections-sri-management-systems-asset-management-companies-and-integration-esg   

=== PAGE 30 ===
 
27 
 
 
In the United States, the Securities and Exchange Commission (US SEC) is taking a 
comprehensive approach to address the increasing demand for climate and other ESG-related 
information.55  The priorities laid out by the Division of Examinations for 2021 will include an 
enhanced focus on climate and ESG,56 including by examining ESG fund proxy voting policies 
and practices to ensure alignment with investors’ best interests and expectations, as well as 
examining firms’ business continuity plans in light of intensifying physical and other relevant 
risks associated with climate change.  In addition, a Climate and ESG Task Force has been set 
up in the  US SEC’s Division of Enforcement, 57 which will proactively detect ESG -related 
misconduct, with an initial focus on identifying any material gaps or misstatements in issuers’ 
disclosure of climate risks under existing rules and analysing disclosure and compliance issues 
relating to investment advisers’ and funds’ ESG strategies. 
 
Prior to the entry into force of  the SFDR, the AMF France reviewed the level and quality  of 
disclosures under existing disclosure requirements for asset managers in France  and any 
progress made since the implementation of the requirements.  Several reports have been issued, 
including guidelines and recommendations.  In late 2020, the AMF France also published the 
first joint annual report of the French authorities investigating climate-related commitments of 
French financial institutions.  One specific area of focus was the implementation of existing 
firm-wide coal exclusion policies.58   
 
The ESAs have issued a joint supervisory statement 59 on the application of the SFDR, and 
market participants are expected to comply with the disclosure obligations set out in the 
implementation timeline. National competent authorities are also expected to prepare for the 
orderly and effective supervision of the compliance of financial ma rket participants and 
financial advisors under the SFDR. For example, the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority 
(DFSA) has set up a new team dedicated to sustainability issues .60  The new Sustainable 
Finance Unit at the DFSA is exploring the use of existi ng supervisory tools in relation to the 
SFDR.  This includes thematic inspections, taking a risk -based approach to supervision, and 
enforcement responses such as public notices for companies that are in contravention of the 
rules.  
 
In the UK, having seen some example s of poor-quality applications at its fund authorisation 
gateway, the FCA has reiterated its expectations for the design, delivery and disclosure of funds 
that make ESG claims.  In July 2021, the FCA UK issued a ‘Dear Chair’ letter,61 which included 
a set of guiding principles refe rencing existing rules, including that  communications to 
consumers should be clear, fair and not misleading.    
 
55   US SEC, SEC Response to Climate and ESG Risks and Opportunities 
56   US SEC, SEC Division of Examinations Announces 2021 Examination Priorities  
57   US SEC, SEC Announces Enforcement Task Force Focused on Climate and ESG Issues 
58  https://www.amf-france.org/en/news-publications/publications/reports-research-and-analysis/coal-
policies-paris-financial-centre-participants-banks-insurers-asset-managers-first-joint-acpramf 
59   ESMA, Joint ESAs Supervisory Statement - SFDR 
60  Nordsip, Supervisory Authorities’ Early Approaches to SFDR 
61  Authorised ESG and sustainable investment funds: improving quality and clarity (fca.org.uk)  

=== PAGE 31 ===
 
28 
 
Chapter 3: Regulatory Approaches to Disclosures for Investment Products 
 
This chapter: (a) discusses and provides examples of different types of greenwashing at the 
product level; and (b) provides an overview of the different regulatory approaches to product-
level disclosure by member jurisdictions for sustainability -related products and explains how 
the approaches can help prevent greenwashing. 
 
A. Types and Examples of Product-Level Greenwashing 
 
The following is a non-exhaustive list of possible types of greenwashing that may occur at the 
product level, with examples of each type. 
 
i. Lack of alignment between the product’s sustainability -related name and its 
investment objectives and/or strategies 
 
The first possible type of greenwashing at the product level involves a lack of alignment 
between the product’s name and its investment objectives and/or strategies.  This could take 
the form of the product’s name suggesting that it is primarily focused on sustainability, but: (i) 
the product’s investment objectives do not refer to sustainability; (ii) the product only uses 
ESG strategies in a limited way and is not primarily focused on sustainability; or (iii) the asset 
manager has discretion over whether the product takes sustainability into account. 
 
a. Product’s name refers to sustainability but its investment objectives do not  
 
Given the importance of a product’s name in communicating its focus and objectives, the 
practice of a product referring to sustainability in its name despite not referring to sustainability 
in its investment objectives may mislead investors into purchasing  products that appear to be 
focused on sustainability, but which are not.  
 
Examples:  
 
A product includes “ESG factors” in its name, but its investment objectives only state that it 
seeks to provide capital appreciation by investing primarily in global equity securities. 
 
A product has the word “sustainable” in its name, but its investment objectives only reference 
financial performance. 
  
b. Product’s name refers to sustainability but its use of ESG strategies is limited 
 
A product that references sustainability in its name, but that is not primarily focused on 
sustainability and only uses ESG strategies in a limited way, could be misleading to investors 
who may expect a stronger sustainability focus from the product based on its name. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 32 ===
 
29 
 
Example: 
 
A product has “ESG” in its name, but only uses a limited negative screening strategy to exclude 
investments in controversial weapons and does not materially consider ESG factors in the rest 
of its investment strategies. 
 
c. Product’s name refers to sustainability but the asset manager has discretion over 
whether the product takes sustainability into account 
 
Similar to the above scenario, a product that references sustainability in its name but provides 
the asset manager with discretion over whether the product takes sustainability into account 
could be misleading to investors who may expect that the product is fully co mmitted to 
sustainability based on its name. 
 
Example: 
 
A product has the word “sustainable” in its name, but its disclosure states that the asset 
manager may take ESG factors into account in the product’s investment strategies and there 
is no actual commitment to do so. 
 
ii. Marketing that does not accurately reflect the product’s investment objectives 
and/or strategies 
 
Another possible type of greenwashing at the product level involves the product being 
marketed in a way that does not accurately reflect its investment objectives and/or strategies. 
Some common variations of this practice include: (i) suggesting that a product is a 
sustainability-related product when it is not; (ii) suggesting that a product is focused all three 
components of ESG wh en it only focuses on one component; and (iii) misrepresenting the 
extent and nature of the product’s use of ESG strategies. 
 
a. Product is marketed as a sustainability-related product but it is not 
 
One variation of this type of greenwashing involves the product’s marketing materials 
suggesting that the product is focused on sustainability, but its investment objectives and/or 
strategies, as disclosed in the product’s disclosure documents, do not refer to sustainability. 
This may lead to investors purchasi ng products that appear, based on their representations, to 
be focused on sustainability, but which are not. 
 
Examples: 
 
A product is marketed as an ESG product, but while the manager of the product has access 
to ESG ratings and data, it does not take them  into consideration in its investment process, 
and only uses investment strategies that are similar to those used by non-ESG products. 
 
A product is marketed as a responsible investing product by being listed as a responsible 
investing product with an industry association, but the product’s investment objectives, as 
disclosed in the product’s disclosure documents, do not reference responsible investing. 
 

=== PAGE 33 ===
 
30 
 
This practice can also occur when the product is not necessarily being marketed explicitly as a 
sustainability-related product, but the product’s marketing materials highlight sustainability -
related performance in a way that could lead an investor to believe that it is a sustainability -
related product.  This may lead investors who wish to invest in sust ainability-related products 
to mistakenly purchase products that happen to perform well on certain sustainability metrics 
at a certain point in time, but which are not intended to be sustainability-related.  Such products 
may later perform poorly on sustainability metrics as they are not intended to be sustainability 
related. 
 
Example: 
 
A product’s website shows the product’s ESG ratings, identifying them to be on the high -end 
of an ESG performance scale and thus implying that the product has an ESG focus, but the 
product’s name, investment objectives and strategies do not reference sustainability or ESG at 
all, and the product is not managed by an asset manager that applies sustainability 
considerations across all of its products. 
  
b. Product is marketed as focusing on all three ESG components but is only focused on 
one 
 
This variation involves products that are marketed as being focused on all three components of 
ESG, but which are in fact only focused on one of the components.  This may confuse investors 
who want to invest in products that address all three ESG components into mistakenly investing 
in a product that only focuses on one of the three components.  This may also lead investors to 
invest in a product that focuses on a different ESG factor than what they intended. 
 
Example: 
 
A product is marketed as being focused on all three components of ESG, but the disclosure 
documents indicate that the product is only focused on water quality, without any focus on, or 
supporting information about, social or governance issues. 
  
c. Extent and nature of product’s use of ESG strategies are different than advertised 
 
This variation involves marketing sustainability -related products by emphasi sing their use of 
certain ESG strategies in a way that is not reflective of how those strategies are actually used. 
This includes scenarios in which: (i) there is a maximum limit to the product’s use of those 
strategies; (ii) the product does not actually use the advertised investment strategies and/or uses 
different types of investment strategies altogether; and (iii) material aspects of the investment 
strategies are not prominently disclosed in the marketing materials.  This may lead investors to 
invest in products based on an incorrect understanding of how the product will achieve its 
sustainability-related investment objectives. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 34 ===
 
31 
 
Examples: 
 
A product is marketed as an impact investment product but does not actually engage in impact 
investing and only employs a basic level of negative screening. 
 
A product is marketed on its website as an investment option for investors to manage climate 
change risk and transition to a low carbon economy using a pr oprietary decarboni sation 
investment strategy.  The product’s website states that the proprietary strategy would result in 
the product holding no companies with significant involvement in coal -related activities (i.e., 
zero holdings in coal).  However, this statement is qualified by a footnote which pro vides the 
product with broad exceptions to its claim of zero holdings in coal, such as allowing for the 
product to invest in companies that only derive a small portion of their power generation from 
renewable sources, with the remaining majority from thermal coal or other coal power. 
 
A product’s marketing materials indicate that the product uses corporate engagement, proxy 
voting and shareholder proposals to achieve its socially responsible investment objectives, but 
the product’s prospectus does not disc lose these approaches in its investment strategies 
disclosure, and the summary of the product’s proxy voting policy disclosed in the product’s 
disclosure documents does not explain how proxy voting is used to meet its socially responsible 
investment objectives.  
  
iii. Failure of product to follow its sustainability -related investment objectives and/or 
strategies 
 
A third possible type of greenwashing at the product level involves a product with stated 
sustainability-related investment objectives and strategies failing to follow those objectives and 
strategies in practice. This may lead to investors investing in products with stated 
sustainability-related investment objectives and strategies that appear to meet their 
sustainability-related aims, but which do not in practice do so. 
 
It is worth noting that the failure could be intentional or be the result of poor asset management, 
including poor compliance practices. The former scenario is perhaps the most classic type of 
product-level greenwashing, in which a product intentionally does not do what it has stated to 
its investors that it will do.  The latter scenario, while lacking the same intent to greenwash, 
can have the same consequence as the deliberate form of this type of greenwashing. 
 
Example: 
 
A product claims to use a negative screening investment strategy to screen out all companies 
that are involved in the oil and gas industry, but the product’s portfolio in fact holds securities 
of companies in the oil and gas industry. 
  
iv. Misleading claims ab out the product’s sustainability -related performance and 
results 
 
Another possible type of greenwashing at the product level involves the making of misleading 
claims about the sustainability-related performance of a product, which may lead investors to 
purchase products under a false impression about the product’s sustainability -related 
performance. Examples of these types of misleading claims include: (i) claims about 

=== PAGE 35 ===
 
32 
 
sustainability-related results (such as portfolio temperature or impact);  (ii) claims about the 
existence of a direct causal link between a product’s investment strategy and specific 
sustainability-related portfolio results; and (iii) manipulating elements of disclosure to present 
an asset manager or product in a positive light.  
 
This type of greenwashing is perhaps one of the most prevalent types of greenwashing. A June 
2019 report revealed that, based on an analysis of the key information documents and 
marketing materials of 100 green thematic products in the EU, 85 percent of the products made 
impact claims in their marketing, and only 2 claims were deemed not to be misleading 62. 
According to the report, the most common claim was to suggest that positive environmental 
impacts result from the product’s investment strategy. 
 
Example: 
 
A product claims that investments in the product will achieve greater carbon dioxide emission 
reductions than from recycling, going vegan or not driving a car, despite a lack of evidence 
disclosed to substantiate the claim, as well as a lack of explanation of how such impact is being 
calculated or measured (including any assumptions used in making those calculations). 
 
A product claims that every euro invested in it will directly lead to the delivery of a certain 
number of health appliances for poor communities, without providing evidence for this claim. 
 
v. Lack of disclosure  
 
A lack of disclosure about the sustainability -related aspects of a product can lead to 
greenwashing.  This includes a lack of disclosure about the product’s: (i) investment strategies, 
including the use of indices and ESG scores or ratings as part of the product’s investment 
strategies; (ii) use of proxy voting and shareholder engagement; and (iii) sustainability-related 
performance and results.  This practice ma y lead to investors making investment decisions 
based on a lack of information about the sustainability -related aspects of the product that are 
material to the investor’s decision to invest. 
 
It is worth noting that not all cases of a lack of disclosure ar e examples of greenwashing. 
However, greenwashing, or the potential of greenwashing, occurs when there is a lack of 
disclosure that leads to investor confusion or misunderstanding about the sustainability-related 
aspects of a product. 
 
a. Lack of disclosure about product’s investment strategies 
 
A lack of disclosure about a product’s investment strategies, including its use of indices (for 
index-tracking products or other products that reference one or more indices) and ESG scores 
or ratings (both “in-house” and third-party scores and ratings), may lead to investors purchasing 
products under a false impression about how the product will meet its investment objectives, 
including the investment universe from which the product will select its investments, and how 
 
62   2° Investing Initiative, Impact Washing Gets a Free Ride: An Analysis of the Draft EU Ecolabel Criteria 
for Financial Products , June 2019, pg. 26. https://2degrees-investing.org/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/2019-Paper-Impact-washing.pdf 

=== PAGE 36 ===
 
33 
 
the product will make those selections, including the evaluation criteria used to assess the 
sustainability performance of portfolio companies. 
 
In particular, a lack of disclosure about a product’s investment strategies can lead to investor 
confusion or misunderstandings about what the product is permitted to invest in.  For example, 
some investors may consider investments in certain countries, industries, sectors or issuers to 
be inappropriate investments for sustainability -related products.  However, a p roduct that is 
marketed as a sustainability -related product may be permitted to invest in such countries, 
industries, sectors or issuers, and may have a good reason to do so, such as, for example, if the 
product aims to use shareholder engagement to improv e a specific issuer’s sustainability 
practices.  This can be made clear to investors through investment objectives and strategies 
disclosure that states that the product may invest in countries, industries, sectors or issuers that 
may not appear to be sust ainable-friendly (including identifying those countries, industries, 
sectors or issuers) and explains the rationale for such investments.  However, where such 
disclosure does not exist, or is unclear, this may lead to investors purchasing products under a 
false impression about the types of investments that the product may make. 
 
In addition, a lack of disclosure about a product’s investment strategies may include a lack of 
disclosure about the limitations in the data or methodologies used by the product.  This may 
include a lack of disclosure about the level of uncertainty associated with the data used by the 
product and the use of assumptions and approximations in producing sustainability -related 
data, such as in the calculation of carbon emissions, and in  particular, the consideration of 
“Scope 3” emissions.  
 
Examples: 
 
A product claims “Paris alignment” in its investment strategies but does not articulate what 
“Paris alignment” means and how it will be achieved by the product.  
 
A product’s disclosure documents do not explain the product’s negative screening process, other 
than to state that investments with material ESG issues and poor risk/return characteristics will 
be excluded as investments.  
 
A product states that it may exclude companies involved in severe ESG -related controversies 
but does not explain or describe what would constitute a severe ESG-related controversy. 
 
A product discloses that it uses a quantitative multi -factor model, but the investment strategies 
disclosure in the product’s prospectus does not describe or explain the ESG factors used in the 
model. 
 
A product refers to a specific combination of indices, which are briefly described in the 
product’s prospectus, but there is no description of the ESG factors used by the indices. 
 
An index-tracking product references climate change in its name and specifies in its key investor 
information document that it invests in companies that contribute to climate transition, but the 
disclosure provides limited information about how the selected index meets the objective of 
investing in companies that contribute to climate transition. 

=== PAGE 37 ===
 
34 
 
A product’s disclosure does not explain what the third-party ESG ratings used by the product in 
determining its investment universe represent, how they should be interpreted in the context of 
the product’s investment objectives and strategies, and the source of the ratings. 
 
A product has significant weighting in certain “sin stock” sectors, despite the product’s 
marketing materials emphasising that the product’s investment strategy takes ESG factors into 
account and the investment strategies disclosure does not explain that the product may invest in 
certain “sin stock” sectors. 
 
A product has “sustainability” in its name but invests in controversial sectors such as mining 
and oil, and the investment strategies disclosure does not provide any clarity as to whether this 
could happen, and why. 
 
b. Lack of disclosure about product’s use of proxy voting and shareholder engagement  
 
A lack of disclosure about a product’s use of proxy voting and shareholder engagement, 
including i ts proxy voting and shareholder engagement policies, may lead to investors 
purchasing products under a false understanding about the nature and extent of the product’s 
use of proxy voting and shareholder engagement as tools to achieve its sustainability -related 
investment objective.  Without sufficient disclosure, investors may have expectations about 
what the asset manager aims to achieve through its use of proxy voting and shareholder 
engagement that cannot or will not be met. 
 
Some have raised concerns about the prevalence of insufficient disclosure about proxy voting 
in certain jurisdictions.  The aforementioned June 2020 report found that only 55 percent of the 
75 asset managers reviewed disclosed a record of proxy votes cast in annual general meetings 
of investee companies, 63 and only 17 percent of the asset managers published rationales for 
their voting decisions.  The report highlighted this statistic to be concerning considering that 
“proxy voting is often the only measurable evidence that asset owners, clients and other 
stakeholders have of asset managers’ commitment to active stewardship and responsible 
investment more generally”.64 
 
There have also been some concerns raised about insufficient disclosure about shar eholder 
engagement activities.  The same report found that most of the reviewed asset managers 
reported on their sustainability-related shareholder engagement at an aggregate level, but rarely 
provided details about their engagements and outcomes. 65  Specifically, the report found that 
36 percent of the asset managers disclosed no information about their sustainability -related 
shareholder engagement activities publicly, while 8 percent only communicated this 
information to clients.  Meanwhile, 39 percent of  asset managers provided limited disclosure 
 
63   ShareAction, Point of No Returns: A ranking of 75 of the world’s largest asset managers’ approaches to 
responsible investment, March 2020, pg. 33. https://shareaction.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Point-
of-no-Returns.pdf 
64  ShareAction, Point of No Returns: A ranking of 75 of the world’s largest asset managers’ approaches to 
responsible investment, March 2020, pg. 34. https://shareaction.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Point-
of-no-Returns.pdf 
65  ShareAction, Point of No Returns: A ranking of 75 of the world’s largest asset managers’ approaches to 
responsible investment, March 2020, pg. 35. https://shareaction.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Point-
of-no-Returns.pdf 

=== PAGE 38 ===
 
35 
 
about their engagement activities, usually in the form of a handful of short examples of 
engagement or a detailed split of the number of engagements by topic. Only 17 percent of the 
asset managers included a repr esentative sample of detailed case studies of sustainability -
related shareholder engagement in their reports.  Finally, only 52 percent of the asset managers 
reported on the number of engagements or targeted companies, and only a few provided 
information on the nature of the engagements. 
 
In addition, although there is some progress on this front, not all PRI A+ rated asset managers 
set time-bound objectives for engagement or disclose engagement progress and outcomes.66 
 
Example: 
 
A product does not disclos e its full proxy voting record, and only provides highlights or 
commentary about specific votes that it has made as a shareholder of certain companies. 
  
c. Lack of disclosure about product’s sustainability-related performance and results 
 
A lack of disclosure about a product’s sustainability -related performance and results may 
include: (i) failing to provide any type of periodic reporting about the product’s sustainability-
related performance and results; (ii) providing only limited reporting that do es not give a full 
picture of the product’s sustainability -related performance and results; and (iii) failing to 
provide an explanation for awards or certifications obtained by the product in relation to its 
sustainability-related performance, which may be interpreted by investors to be an indicator of 
positive performance by the product. 
 
This practice may lead to investors investing in products that they believe will achieve, or are 
achieving, specific sustainability -related goals that are important to th e investor, without 
having any way of verifying whether the product is succeeding in meeting those goals, or in 
some cases, while being misled about the product’s sustainability -related performance and 
results. 
 
Examples: 
 
A product states that its targets  for investment are companies with specific “green” 
characteristics but does not include key performance indicators for these characteristics in 
its periodic performance reporting. 
 
A product identifies real -world sustainability aims that are aligned with  several of the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, but does not provide quantifiable evidence 
of how, and how well, the product is meeting those aims, and only provides limited or 
anecdotal evidence of actions taken to meet those aims. 
 
A product discloses that it has been certified as “ethical”, but there is no description of the 
basis for the certification. 
 
 
 
66  Stampe, J. et al, [2020], RESPOND – Resilient and Sustainable Portfolios , WWF and Lee, K. and 
Gauthier, M. [2021], “2021 Review of Responsible Investment Practices”, WWF  

=== PAGE 39 ===
 
36 
 
B. Regulatory Approaches to Investment Product Disclosure 
 
This subsection provides an overview of the scope and content of the different regulatory 
approaches by member jurisdictions to sustainability -related product -level disclosure on a 
range of topics and explains how those requirements can help prevent greenwashing. 
 
i. Scope of Requirements 
 
In general, a significant number of jurisdictions have mandatory general requirements relating 
to product disclosure that are applicable to all types of products, rather than only sustainability-
related products.  
 
The main reasons why some jurisdictions h ave general disclosure requirements that apply to 
all types of products rather than requirements that are specific to sustainability-related products 
are that: (i) the general requirements adequately address sustainability -related products; and 
(ii) in some jurisdictions, sustainability-related products comprise only a small fraction of all 
products and a sustainability-specific regulatory regime is not needed. 
 
However, many jurisdictions have requirements that apply only to sustainability -related 
products. While there are a few exceptions, such requirements tend to be mandatory. 
 
For example, in Hong Kong, the requirements under the Circular to Management Companies 
of SFC-Authorised Unit Trusts and Mutual Funds for  ESG Funds 67 (the SFC  Hong Kong 
Circular) are applicable to SFC Hong Kong -authorised funds that incorporate ESG factors 
(such as the United Nations Global Compact Principles , United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals or other  ESG criteria or principles recognised globally or nationally) as 
their key investment focus and which reflect such in their investment objective and/or strategy 
(SFC-authorised ESG Funds).  There are similar requirements in Malaysia in the Guidelines 
on Sustainable and Responsible Investment Funds 68 (the SRI Funds Guidelines), which apply 
to funds that incorporate one or more sustainability considerations, and seeks to be qualified as 
SRI Funds under the SRI Funds Guidelines.  
 
In some of the jurisdictions that have requirements that are specific to sustainability -related 
products, the requirements vary depending on the level of the product’s focus on sustainability. 
For example, in EU member jurisdictions, under the SFDR,69 different disclosure requirements 
apply to products that “promote, among other characteristics, environmental or social 
characteristics, or a combination of those characteristics ” (Article 8 Products), as compared 
to products “that have sustainable investment as their objective” (Article 9 Products).  
 
Another example is France, which introduced in 2020 minimum standards for investment 
products marketed to retail investors using non-financial considerations in their marketing. The 
objective of the policy is  to reduce the risk of greenwashing  given the rapid growth in funds 
that integrate 70 criteria.  Different requirements apply depending on whether the product’s non-
 
67   https://apps.sfc.hk/edistributionWeb/gateway/EN/circular/doc?refNo=21EC27  
68   https://www.sc.com.my/api/documentms/download.ashx?id=9a455914-71db-4982-a34b-9a8fc7df79b5  
69  https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2019/2088/oj  
70  AMF Position DOC-2020-03. https://www.amf-france.org/en/regulation/policy/doc-2020-03  

=== PAGE 40 ===
 
37 
 
financial investment management approach (i.e., its use of ESG investment strategies) is 
“significantly engaging ”, “non-significantly engaging ” or does not satisfy either of those 
thresholds.  Only products whose approaches are significantly engaging (Key Communication 
Products) may make non -financial characteristics a key aspect of their commun ications 
(including in their names).  Products which take non -financial criteria into consideration in 
their management without adopting a significantly engaging approach may only communicate 
in a limited way on the consideration of non -financial criteria (Limited Communication 
Products) and may only present information on their non-financial characteristics outside their 
prospectuses. 
 
ii. Content of Requirements 
 
This subsection discusses the content of the different regulatory requirements relating to 
product-level disclosure by member jurisdictions and explains how those requirements can help 
prevent greenwashing.  It also describes plans among member jurisdictions to add to, or change, 
such requirements. 
 
In general, a number of jurisdictions are cons idering imposing sustainability -specific 
requirements or providing sustainability-specific guidance relating to product-level disclosure. 
Some of those jurisdictions are undertaking studies and reviews in order to determine whether 
there is a need for such  requirements or guidance, while others are exploring international 
standards, best practices and experiences of other jurisdictions in this area. Specific plans to 
add to, or change, existing requirements relating to specific areas of product disclosure a re 
discussed below. 
 
a. Product Authorisation 
 
Product authorisation generally involves a process whereby a new product that wishes to sell 
securities to the public files an application and/or offering document that is required to meet 
certain minimum disclosure requirements, which is then subject to s ome form of regulatory 
review or approval.  
 
Product authorisation systems can help prevent greenwashing by imposing minimum 
disclosure requirements, as discussed below in the subsections addressing different areas of 
product disclosure.  
 
Many jurisdictions have general product authorisation requirements that apply to all products, 
including sustainability-related products.  In some of those jurisdictions, products that wish to 
sell securities to the public are required to file a prospectus or o ther offering document that 
meets specific disclosure requirements.  For example, in the United States, funds are required 
to file a prospectus that discloses material information, such as investment objectives and 
strategies, fees, risks, and performance.  Other jurisdictions require products to file an 
application with the regulator that meets certain disclosure requirements. 
 
Several jurisdictions have product authorisation requirements that are specific to sustainability-
related products. Some of those jurisdictions require sustainability-related products to make an 
application and meet certain sustainability -related disclosure requirements before they are 
authorised as sustainability-related products.  For example, in Hong Kong, the SFC Hong Kong 
Circular sets out an authorisation process for new and existing SFC Hong Kong-authorised 

=== PAGE 41 ===
 
38 
 
funds that wish to be considered SFC-authorised ESG Funds that involves providing 
confirmation of compliance with the SFC Hong Kong Circular, and meeting certain disclosure 
standards and periodic assessment and reporting requirements Similarly, in Malaysia, there are 
specific authorisation requirements relating to both new and existing funds that wish to qualify 
as SRI Funds, involving both  submitting an application to the Securities Commission  that 
complies with the SRI Funds Guidelines, as well as meeting certain disclosure requirements.  
Other jurisdictions only require sustainability -related products to meet certain sustainability -
specific disclosure requirements in an offering document such as a prospectus. In some of these 
jurisdictions, there are thresholds or criteria to determine the level of disclosure required.  For 
example, in jurisdictions in the EU, there are different sustainabilit y-related disclosure 
requirements in pre-contractual disclosures depending on whether the product is an Article 8 
Product or Article 9 Product. 
 
The FCA UK issued a Dear Chair Letter setting out guiding principles relating to the design, 
delivery and disclosure of ESG investment products.71  The aim of the guiding principles is to 
help firms interpret existing rules, including the requirement that disclosures are ‘fair, clear and 
not misleading.’   The FCA UK is using the guiding principles  to challenge firms at the 
authorisations gateway to help ensure that new or repurposed funds submitted for authorisation 
meet the FCA UK’s regulatory requirements. 
 
Plans to add or change requirements 
 
In its renewed Sustainable Finance Strategy published in July 2021 72, the European 
Commission indicated that it would propose minimum sustainability criteria, or a combination of 
criteria, for Article 8 Products in order to guarantee a minimum level of sustainability performance 
for such products to further strengthen a harmonised application of the SFDR and incentivise 
transitional efforts.  
 
b. Naming 
 
Naming requirements set parameters around the words or message conveyed in a product’s 
name.  Requireme nts may include, for example, ensuring consistency between a product’s 
name and its investment objectives in order to ensure that the name of the product is not 
misleading. 
 
Requirements relating to naming for sustainability -related products can help prevent 
greenwashing by ensuring that products that identify themselves as sustainability -related 
through their names are accurately reflecting their focus on sustainability.  
 
Several jurisdictions have general naming requirements that are not specific to sustainability -
related products.  In some jurisdictions, such as Ontario and Québec (Canada), the general 
requirements are focused on ensuring consistency between the product’s  name and its 
investment objectives and strategies.  In the United States, all names of funds are subject to the 
“Names Rule,” which generally requires that if a fund’s name suggests a particular type of 
investment, industry, or geographic focus, the fund must invest at least 80 percent of its assets 
 
71   https://www.fca.org.uk/news/speeches/building-trust-sustainable-investments 
72  https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:52021DC0390 

=== PAGE 42 ===
 
39 
 
in the type of investment, industry, country, or geographic region suggested by its name 73.  
Funds are also prohibited from adopting as part of their names “any word or words that the 
Commission finds are materially deceptive or misleading.” Sustainability -focused funds, like 
all other funds, are subject to these requirements and prohibitions. 
 
In other jurisdictions, general naming requirements also encompass other concerns.  For 
example, in China, a fund’s nam e must indicate its type and investment characteristics and 
cannot contain anything that damages the national interest or public interest, defrauds or 
misleads investors, or otherwise infringes upon the lawful rights and interests of others. 
 
Many jurisdictions have specific naming requirements for sustainability-related products.  For 
example, in Hong Kong, the SFC Hong Kong Circular specifies that references to ESG or 
similar terms in the fund’s name and marketing materials should accurately and proportionately 
reflect the ESG features against other features of the fund and should not overstate or over -
emphasise the ESG features.  The SFC Hong Kong would generally not expect a fund o ther 
than an SFC-authorised ESG Fund to name or market itself as an ESG fund.  In France, only 
Key Communication Products may refer to non -financial characteristics in their names.   In 
addition, the FCA UK issued guiding principles in July 2021 on the desig n, delivery and 
disclosure of sustainable funds, and Principle 1 specifically requires consideration around the 
naming of sustainable funds. 
 
Plans to add or change requirements  
 
The CMVM Portugal has indicated that it is considering imposing a requirement within the 
authorisation and registration regime for funds whereby, in order to be allowed to use 
sustainability references in the fund’s name, the fund must invest most of its portfolio according 
to ESG methodologies, disclose the asset selection approach, and commit to objective criteria 
that allow for the monitoring of the fund.  
 
c. Labelling and Classification  
 
Labelling and classification requirements set parameters around how a product is labelled or 
categorised beyond the product’s name.  Labelling includes, for example, the use of ESG or 
SRI labels as well as third-party certifications.  Classification includes the use of ESG product 
types for product categorisation schemes. 
 
Requirements relating to labelling and classification for sustainability-related products can help 
prevent greenwashing  by ensuring that products that identify themselves as sustainability -
related in their disclosure documents or marketing materials through their use of sustainability-
related labels or product types are accurately reflecting their focus on sustainability.  A few 
jurisdictions have labelling and classification requirements that are specific to sustainability -
related products. 
 
In the EU, there are classification requirements for environmentally sustainable products under 
the EU’s Taxonomy Regulation (the Taxonomy Regulation).74  The Taxonomy Regulation 
sets out specific criteria for determining whether an economic activity, including a financial 
 
73   Section 35(d) of the Investment Company Act and rule 35d-1 under the Investment Company Act. 
74   https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex:32020R0852  

=== PAGE 43 ===
 
40 
 
product, qualifies as environmentally sustainable and requires that the EU and its member 
jurisdictions apply the cr iteria to determining whether an economic activity qualifies as 
environmentally sustainable for the purposes of public measures, standards and labels.  It is 
expected that additional requirements relating to the definition of activities as environmentally 
sustainable will be implemented under the Regulatory Technical Standards (the RTS), which 
have not yet been implemented. 
 
In addition, the AMF France  recommends that Key Communication Products adhere to a 
charter, code or label regarding the criteria relating to the fulfilment of environmental, social, 
and governance quality objectives.  With respect to products that use the SRI indication and 
market themselves as such, the AMF France also recommends that the product obtain the SRI 
label. This recommendation was developed specifically to address potential confusion relating 
to the use of the public SRI label established in France in 2015. 
 
Plans to add or change requirements  
 
In July 2021 , the UK government announced plans to introduce a sustainability disclosure 
regime across the economy and work with the FCA to introduce a sustainable investment label 
to help consumers navigate investment products.  This was followed in October 2021 by a 
Roadmap75 that sets out these plans in more detail.  
 
d. Investment Objectives Disclosure in Product Offering Documents  
 
Requirements relating to investment objectives disclosure in product offering documents or 
pre-contractual disclosure are generally aimed at requiring, and specifying the nature of, 
disclosure about a product’s investment objectives. 
 
In combination with requirements relating to product naming, labelling, classification and 
marketing materials, requirements about investment objectives disclosure can help prevent 
greenwashing by providing transparency about the nature and extent of a product’s 
sustainability-related investment objectives, including which components of ESG the product 
is focused on and whether sustainability is a primary focus of the product. 
 
Many jurisdictions have general requirements relating to investment objectives disclosure that 
are not specific to sustainability -related products and that apply to a wider range of products. 
For example, in Ontario and Québec (Canada), all funds are required t o disclose, in their 
prospectus, the fundamental investment objectives of the fund, including information that 
describes the fundamental nature or features of the fund that distinguish it from other funds.  In 
the United States, all registered funds are re quired to provide disclosure in their prospectuses 
about their investment objectives.  As a result, some funds may reference sustainability-related 
factors in their investment objectives as applicable. 
 
The jurisdictions that have investment objectives dis closure requirements specific to 
sustainability-related products generally require that the product offering or pre-contractual 
disclosure documents disclose the product’s sustainability -related investment objectives. For 
example, in Hong Kong, the offering documents of SFC-authorised ESG Funds are required to 
 
75  https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploa ds/attachment_data/ 
  file/1026224/CCS0821102722-006_Green_Finance_Paper_2021_v5_Bookmarked_48PP.pdf 

=== PAGE 44 ===
 
41 
 
disclose a description of the ESG focus.  In France, the AMF France requests that Key 
Communication Products disclose in their regulatory documents an investment objective 
describing the non-financial aspect of their management.  
 
The FCA UK has issued non -Handbook guidance in Policy Statement PS19/4 76 stating that 
funds that set out non -financial objectives or that state that they are aiming to achieve a non -
financial return should set them out in their prospectuses or key information document in a way 
that is fair, clear, and not misleading and be clear about how they will measure whether those 
objectives are being met.   In EU member jurisdictions, there are also specific investment 
objectives disclos ure requirements where an Article  9 Product’s sustainability -related 
investment objective is specific to environmental factors or if an Article 9 Product has 
reduction in carbon emissions as its objective.  
 
e. Investment Strategies Disclosure in Product Offering Documents  
 
Requirements relating to investment strategies disclosure in product offering documents or pre-
contractual disclosure are generally aimed at requiring, and specifying the nature of, disclosure 
about investment strategies, inclu ding sustainability -related investment strategies.   These 
requirements may address disclosure about the investment universe, investment selection 
process (including the types of ESG strategies used, as well as the use of indices and ESG 
scores or ratings, the extent of such use, and their methodologies, where applicable), 
sustainability criteria used, and extent of the ESG strategies used.  The requirements may also 
address disclosure of the product’s use of proxy voting and shareholder engagement as part of 
the product’s investment strategies, as discussed later in this chapter. 
 
Requirements about investment strategies disclosure can help prevent greenwashing by 
providing clarity to investors about how the product will achieve its sustainability -related 
objectives, including the nature and extent of the ESG strategies employed by the product 
(including proxy voting and shareholder engagement), the investment universe from which the 
product will select its investments, and which countries, industries, sector s or issuers that the 
product may invest in.  This would include providing clarity to investors about which indices 
and ESG scores or ratings are being used by the product, the extent to which they are used, and 
the methodologies underlying those indices a nd ESG scores or ratings. 77  These types of 
disclosure requirements may help prevent investors from purchasing products under a false 
impression about the ways in which the product will meet its sustainability -related objectives 
and the types of investments that the product may make. 
 
Many jurisdictions have general requirements relating to investment strategies disclosure that 
are not specific to sustainability -related products and that apply to a wider range of products. 
For example, in China, thematic funds, including sustainability -related and green funds, must 
specify and clarify their investment strategy in fund contracts, and must follow them in 
operating the fund. In the United States, all registered funds are required to provide disclosure 
about their investment strategies, such as the particular type or types of securities in which the 
fund principally invests or will invest.  
 
 
76  https://www.fca.org.uk/publications/policy-statements/ps19-4-asset-management-market-study-
feedback-cp18-    9-  final-rules-guidance  
77  Same as footnote 10 

=== PAGE 45 ===
 
42 
 
Some jurisdictions also have general disclosure requirements relating to the use of indices as 
part of a product’s investment strategies. For example, in  Belgium, products are required to 
explain the way in which an index is used by the product.  Another example is Morocco, where 
the prospectus of each fund is required to disclose the index used by the fund as a benchmark.  
 
Most of the jurisdictions that have investment strategies disclosure requirements specific to 
sustainability-related products generally require, at minimum, an explanation of how the 
product’s sustainability-related investment objectives are being met.  In addition, in the EU, 
Article 8 Products, which do not have sustainability -related investment objectives but which 
promote environmental and/or social characteristics, are also required to provide an 
explanation of how those characteristics are met. 
 
Beyond these minimum requirements, there are also specific disclosure requirements relating 
to different aspects of sustainability -related products’ investment strategies across different 
jurisdictions. 
 
1. Investment universe 
 
Some jurisdictions require disclosure relating to the investment universe from which the 
product selects its investments.  For example, in France, both Key Communication Products 
and Limited Communication Products must present the investment universe on wh ich non-
financial analysis is performed.  
 
2. Investment selection process 
 
A number of jurisdictions require disclosure about the investment selection process adopted by 
the product, including the types of ESG strategies used.  For example, the AMF France 
recommends that Key Communication Products disclose: (i) the types of approaches 
implemented; (ii) indications regarding the selection and management methods used; (iii) the 
significance of the various strategies and an indication of whether the approach can lead to the 
selection of certain sectors; and (iv) a summary of the process of consideration of non-financial 
characteristics and its sequencing relative to the financial strategy.  In Hong Kong, SFC-
authorised ESG Funds are required to disclose the ESG investment strategy or strategies  
adopted by the fund, such as the binding elements and significance of the ESG strategy in the 
investment process and a summary of the process of consideration of ESG criteria (including, 
for example, methodologies used to measure these ESG criteria, their sequencing relative to 
the investment strategies, and examples of the most important ESG criteria considered).  
 
Some jurisdictions require specific disclosure relating to the use of a negative screening 
strategy. In Hong K ong, SFC-authorised ESG Funds are required to provide a description of 
whether an exclusion policy is adopted by the fund, and the types of exclusions used. In 
Sweden, the fund rules must be clear on whether the fund supports or excludes certain 
companies from its investment universe.   
 
3. Sustainability criteria or considerations 
 
A number of jurisdictions require disclosure of the sustainability criteria or considerations used 
by the product.  For example, in Malaysia, an SRI Fund must disclose, as part of its investment 
strategies, the sustainability considerations that it has adopted, such as the United Nations 

=== PAGE 46 ===
 
43 
 
Global Compact Principles, one or more of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(UN SDGs), or any other environment, social or governance factors.  Similarly, in Hong Kong, 
a SFC-authorised ESG Fund must disclose the releva nt ESG factors considered and the ESG 
criteria used to measure the attainment of the fund’s ESG focus. 
 
Another example is Australia, where a product issuer that takes environmental, social, or 
ethical considerations or labour standards into account must o utline those labour standards or 
environmental, social or ethical considerations.  In EU member jurisdictions, Article 8 Products 
are required to disclose the environmental and/or social characteristics to which the investment 
underlying the product relate. In addition, the AMF France recommends that green bond, social 
bond or sustainability bond funds disclose an explanation of the criteria to be complied with 
for the selection of green bonds or social bonds.  The AMF France also recommends that Key 
Communication Products disclose, in the prospectus, a list of the main non -financial criteria 
adopted, and in the key investor information document, examples of some of the most 
important non-financial criteria analysed. 
 
In Sweden, the requirement goes beyond disclosure of the criteria and specifies that funds with 
ESG or green in their names must use objectively determinable selection criteria. 
 
4. Extent of portfolio’s focus on sustainability 
 
A number of  jurisdictions require disclosure relating to the extent to which the product’s 
portfolio relates to sustainability.  For example, in Australia, products are required to disclose 
the extent to which labour standards, or environmental, social or ethical con siderations are 
taken into account in the selection, retention or reali sation of investments.   In Hong Kong, 
SFC-authorised ESG Funds must disclose the expected or minimum proportion of securities or 
other investments that are commensurate with the  fund’s ESG focus.  In France, both Key 
Communication Products and Limited Communication Products are required to disclose the 
minimum measurable objectives adopted by the product and the portfolio’s minimum rate of 
non-financial analysis.  
 
In EU member jurisdict ions, where both Article 8 Products and Article 9 Products intend to 
make Taxonomy Regulation-aligned investments, such products  are required to provide a 
description of how and to what extent the investments underlying the financial product are in 
economic activities that qualify as environmentally sustainable under the Taxonomy 
Regulation. In addition, Article 8 Products are required to include in their pre -contractual 
disclosure a statement that the “do no significant harm” principle applies only to thos e 
investments underlying the product that take into account the EU criteria for environmentally 
sustainable economic activities and that the remaining underling investments do not take into 
account those EU criteria.   
 
5. Use of indices 
 
Certain jurisdictions also have specific requirements relating to disclosure about the use of 
indices as part of the product’s investment strategies.  For example, in Hong Kong, where a 
SFC-authorised ESG Fund has designated an index as a reference ESG benchmark 
for the purpose of attaining its ESG focus  and seeks to measure its ESG focus against a 
designated reference benchmark, it must include an explanation of how the designated 
reference benchmark is relevant to the fund. 

=== PAGE 47 ===
 
44 
 
 
In EU member jurisdictions, Article 8 Products and Article 9 Products are required to disclose, 
if the product has designated an index as a reference benchmark: (i) in the case of Article 9 
products, information on how the designated index is aligned with the product’s objective and 
in the case of Article 8 Products, information on whether and how this index is consistent with 
the environmental and/or social characteristics promoted by the product; (ii) in the case of 
Article 9 Products, an explanation as to why and how the designated i ndex aligned with that 
objective differs from a broad market index; and (iii) an indication of where the methodology 
used for the calculation of the index is to be found.  
 
Plans to add or change requirements 
 
The European Commission has also indicated that it will assess the possibility of creating an 
ESG benchmark, taking into account  the evolving nature of sustainability indicators and the 
methods used to measure them. The European Commission’s assessment will be supported by a 
study that looks at existing ESG -related benchmarks, best practices and shortcomings, as well as 
minimum standards for an EU ESG benchmark78.  
 
In addition, by the end of 2021, the EU will add to its disclosure framework for Article 8 
Products and Article 9 Products by requiring ex-ante disclosure about the extent to which the 
product intends to align, and has been aligned, with the Taxonomy Regulation. 
 
f. Proxy Voting and Shareholder Engagement Disclosure  
 
Requirements relating to disclosure about a product’s use of proxy voting and shareholder 
engagement are generally aimed at requiring, and specifying the natur e of, disclosure about 
such use. These requirements may cover disclosure about the product’s proxy voting and 
shareholder engagement policies, including where to access those policies, along with 
disclosure about the product’s past proxy voting and shareholder engagement records. 
 
Requirements relating to disclosure about proxy voting and shareholder engagement can help 
prevent greenwashing in two ways.  Firstly, such disclosure requirements for presale product 
offering documents and marketing materials can provide clarity to investors and prevent them 
from being misled about the nature and extent of a product’s use, or lack thereof, of proxy 
voting and shareholder engagement as tools to achieve the product’s sustainability -related 
investment objectives.   Secondly, such disclosure re quirements in the context of periodic 
reporting promote accountability, so that investors will be aware if a product’s proxy voting 
and shareholder engagement records are inconsistent with, or fail to meet, the product’s stated 
sustainability-related aims. 
 
The majority of jurisdictions have general disclosure requirements relating to proxy voting and 
shareholder engagement that apply to all products.  Such requirements include, for example, 
requiring that the product have shareholder engagement and proxy v oting policies, disclose 
such policies in accordance with specific disclosure requirements, and disclose on an annual 
basis its shareholder engagement and proxy voting records.  
 
 
78  https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:52021DC0390 

=== PAGE 48 ===
 
45 
 
For example, in Brazil, according to self -regulation, the fund’s prospectus, by-laws or form 
must: (i) include a statement that the manager follows a voting policy; (ii) identify the website 
where the policy may be found; and (iii) provide a description of the purpose of the voting 
policy.  In Japan, asset managers are required to disclose the results of their stewardship 
activities, including dialogue with companies.  
 
Some jurisdictions have requirements relating to disclosure about proxy voting and shareholder 
engagement that are specific to sustainability -related products.  For example, Hong Kong 
requires that SFC-authorised ESG Funds, where applicable, disclose their engagement policies, 
including proxy voting policies.  In addition, the AMF France recommends that products whose 
regulatory and marketing documents mention the exi stence of an engagement policy specify 
the procedures for accessing the documents that provide details about shareholder engagement, 
specifically voting and dialogue reports. 
 
In some jurisdictions, sustainability-specific proxy voting and corporate engagement disclosure 
requirements are imposed at the asset manager level rather than at the product level, such as in 
EU member jurisdictions, including France, which in addition to EU rules also has its own 
recommendations relating to the disclosure of shareholder engagement policies at the portfolio 
management company level.  
 
Plans to add or change requirements 
 
MAS has proposed guidelines which will set out expectations for asset managers to exercise 
sound stewardship to help shape positive corporate behaviour and manage environmental risk 
associated with investee companies through engagement, proxy voting and se ctor 
collaboration.  
 
In addition, the United States has announced that it is exploring options to improve disclosure 
of funds’ proxy voting records.  
 
g. Risk Disclosure  
 
Requirements in this area address the disclosure of risks for sustainability -related products as 
well as sustainability-related risks for all types of products.  
 
Requirements relating to risk disclosure by sustainability -related products address the 
disclosure of all material risks for sustainability -related products, including any unique risks 
that arise from a product’s focus on sustainability, such as concentration in certain types of 
investments and reliance on third-party providers for sustainability-related ratings.  
 
Requirements relating to the disclosure of sustainability-related risks for all types of products, 
including products that are not sustainability -related, address the question of how 
sustainability-related issues impact those products.  This type of risk disclosure could include 
any risks that arise from sustainability -related issues, such as climate change risk and bribery 
and corruption risks.  
 
Requirements relating to the disclosure of all material risks for sustainability -related products 
can help prevent greenwashing by enabling investors to better understand the potential risks 
associated with the product and the impact of those risks on a product’s performance, including 

=== PAGE 49 ===
 
46 
 
sustainability-related performance.  For example, for an index-tracking product that invests in 
companies that contribute to climate transition, disclosure about the risks involved with 
tracking the selected index (including how it may impact the ability of the fund to meet its 
objective) can provide investors with a clear understanding of whether, and how, the product 
will meet its investment objectives.  These types of requirements may help prevent investors 
from purchasing products without understanding whether the product will face challenges in 
meeting its sustainability-related objectives. 
 
In addition, requirements relating to the disclosure of sustainability risks for both products that 
are sustainability-related and those that are not can help reduce information asymmetries and 
assist investors with making in formed investment decisions about how sustainability -related 
issues can impact their investments.  
 
Several jurisdictions have general requirements pertaining to risk disclosure which are not 
specific to sustainability -related funds or sustainability-related risks.  For example, the FCA 
UK has requirements to ensure that a firm takes reasonable steps to ensure that a private 
customer understands the nature of the risks inherent in certain transactions, as well as 
requirements relating to  pre-sale notifications and prospectus disclosure about risks. In the 
United States, all  registered funds are required to provide disclosures about their investment 
risks, including a summary of the principal risks in their prospectuses.  
 
Many jurisdictio ns have risk disclosure requirements that are specific to sustainability, 
including specific risk disclosure by sustainability -related products and sustainability -related 
risk disclosure by all products. 
 
1. Specific risk disclosure by sustainability-related products 
 
Requirements relating to risk disclosure for sustainability -related funds focus specifically on 
unique risks arising from the product being sustainability -related, such as climate risk, 
transition risk, and concentration risk.  For example, in Hong Kong, the offering documents of 
SFC-authorised ESG Funds must include a description of the risks  or limitations associated 
with the fund’s investment strategies, such as limitations of the methodologies and data used, 
a lack of a standardi sed taxonomy, subjective judgment in investment selection, reliance on 
third party sources, and concentration in investments with the particular ESG focus. 
 
2. Sustainability-related risk disclosure by all products 
 
Disclosure requirements which address the integration of sustainability-related risks generally 
involve a discussion and explanation of how sustainability-related risks are integrated into the 
overall investment approach of a product, including investment decisions.  For example, in the 
EU, the SFDR  sets out requirements with respect to disclosure about the integration of 
sustainability risks.  The pre -contractual disclosures of products must include descriptions of 
the: (i) manner in which sustainability risks are integrated into investment decision s; and (ii) 
results of the assessment of the likely impacts of sustainability risks on the returns of the 
product. When sustainability risks are deemed not to be relevant, the pre-contractual disclosure 
must explain why.  
 
 
 

=== PAGE 50 ===
 
47 
 
Plans to add or change requirements  
 
The FCA UK has consulted on entity- and product-level TCFD-aligned risk disclosures for 
asset managers and intends to finalise its rules by the end of the 2021.  Building on the UK’s 
implementation of  the TCFD Framework, the UK government is planning to introduce a 
sustainability disclosure regime requiring corporates and financial services firms across the 
economy to disclose their risks and opportunities from, and impact on, sustainability matters, 
including at the investment product level. 
 
The SFC Hong Kong has issued new requirements to require large fund managers to disclose 
the portfolio carbon footprint of the fund’s portfolio to provide more decision-useful, climate-
related risk metrics to investors and align with the TCFD ’s metrics disclosure 
recommendations.  Subject to data availability, large fund managers are expected to make 
reasonable efforts to disclose Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions data of a fund’s portfolio 
together with its calculation methodology, assumptions and limitations. 
 
h. Marketing Materials and Website Disclosure  
 
Requirements in this area address disclosure in product marketing materials and websites, 
including, for example, the content and format of marketing materials and websites.  
 
Fair, balanced and consistent marketing materials and communications, including websites, for 
sustainability-related products can help prevent greenwashing by ensuring that product 
marketing is not inaccurate nor misleading.  
 
Most jurisdictions do not have requirements that relate specifically to the marketing materials 
and websites of sustainability -related products.  However, such jurisdictions have general 
mandatory requirements relating to the marketing materials and websites of all types of 
products.  
 
For example, in Malaysia, there are guidelines relating to advertising and promotional activity 
by capital markets products and related services.  In Morocco, all marketing materials related 
to mutual funds are subject to Moroccan Capital Markets Authority's approbation before they 
are released. In Singapore, fund advertisements and  publications are prohibited from being 
false or misleading and are required to present a fair and balanced view of the units of the fund.  
In the United States, an investment adviser’s advertisements (including websites) are 
prohibited from including untr ue statements of material facts, or false or misleading 
statements79 and an investment fund is also subject to a number of rules and regulations 
governing its marketing activities, including anti -fraud provisions and prohibitions against 
material misstatements or omissions.  
 
Some jurisdictions have specific mandatory requirements pertaining to the marketing materials 
and websites of sustainability-related products. 
 
 
 
 
 
79   Rule 206(4)-1 and section 206 (the general anti-fraud provision) of the Advisers Act. 

=== PAGE 51 ===
 
48 
 
1. Marketing materials 
 
Some jurisdictions set out requirements for the content of marketing communications relative 
to the sustainability -related product’s regulatory documents.  For example, in EU member 
countries, marketing communications are prohibited from contradicting info rmation set out 
under any of the other disclosure requirements of the SFDR.  In France, in addition to the 
requirements under the SFDR, non-financial characteristics cannot be included in the 
marketing materials of a product marketed to retail investors if  the product does not meet 
certain minimum criteria and if the  non-financial characteristics  are not included in the 
product’s regulatory documents. 
 
Several jurisdictions have specific requirements pertaining to the content of marketing 
materials for sustainability-related products.  For example, the AMF France80 recommends that 
any warnings about the potential limits of the product’s non-financial strategy be presented in 
a manner that is as visible as the product’s advantageous factors. Communications concerning 
the contribution of non-financial aspects to the financial performance of a collective investment 
should also be based on objective factors, with a presentation of the results that is constant, 
consistent over time and uninterrupted. 
 
In Sweden, if a sustainable product’s marketing claims that the fund’s investments are chosen 
on the basis of negative selection criteria, the product must make clear to investors that up to 
five per cent of the turnover in the company in which they are investing m ay relate to 
undesirable operations. 
 
A few jurisdictions have certain requirements that financial products must meet in order to 
market themselves as sustainable, such as the EU member jurisdictions (including France, 
which also has its own requirements),  as previously discussed.  In addition, in Sweden, the 
Ethical Fund Marketing Committee issued an advisory statement that sets out the qualifications 
for marketing funds as sustainable. 
 
2. Websites 
 
Some jurisdictions have requirements relating to website di sclosure for sustainability -related 
products. For example, in the EU, Article 8 Funds and Article 9 Funds are required to publish 
and maintain certain sustainability -related disclosures on their websites, including: (i) a 
description of the product’s envir onmental or social characteristics or sustainable investment 
objective; and (ii) information on the methodologies used to assess, measure and monitor the 
environmental or social characteristics or the impact of the sustainable investments selected for 
the product, including its data sources, screening criteria for the underlying assets, and the 
relevant sustainability indicators used to measure the environmental or social characteristics or 
the overall sustainable impact of the product. 
 
In Hong Kong, a SFC-authorised ESG Fund should disclose additional information of the fund, 
as appropriate, to investors to complement the disclosures in the offering documents, including, 
among other  things: (i) a description of how the ESG focus is measured and monitored 
 
80  https://www.amf-
france.org/sites/default/files/doctrine/Position/Information%20to%20be%20provided%20by%20collect
ive%20investment%20schemes%20incorporating%20non-financial%20approaches.pdf 

=== PAGE 52 ===
 
49 
 
throughout the lifecycle of the fund and the related internal or external control mechanisms ; 
and (ii) a description of the methodologies adopted to measure the ESG focus and the fund’s 
attainment of the ESG focus. Such disclosure can be made on the fund manager’s website or 
by other means.  
 
In addition, the AMF France recommends that non-financial reporting be easily accessible from 
web pages dedicated to SRI, ESG or socially responsible thematic funds and updated at least 
annually. 
 
Plans to add or change requirements  
 
In the EU, the RTS, when finalised and implemented, are expected to specify the content, 
methodologies, and presentation of information in relation to sustainability indicators and the 
promotion of environmental or social characteristics and sustainable investment objectives on 
websites and in periodic reports.  
 
In addition, the CMVM Portugal has indicated that it will publish guidelines and 
recommendations which will provide that only an investment fund that invests most of its 
portfolio in accordance with ESG methodologies may promote and market (either via its 
website or other means) its sustainability-related features.  
 
The FCA UK has proposed that TCFD -aligned disclosures be published in a prominent place 
on the main website for the business of the firm (e.g., with a link from the homepage) to ensure 
that the disclosures are easily accessible to clients and consumers.  
 
i. Monitoring of Compliance and Sustainability-Related Performance  
 
Requirements in this area address the monitoring of, either by the asset manager or a regulatory 
or supervisory body, a product’s: (i) compliance with its investment objectives; and (ii) its 
performance.  These would include, for example, requirements for asset managers to monitor 
and evaluate their products’ portfolios in order to ensure that the product is meeting its 
investment objectives (including meeting its performance goals) and requirements for a 
regulatory body to monitor products’ compliance with their investment objectives. These types 
of requirements are different from requirements relating to periodic sustainab ility-related 
reporting, which are discussed below. 
 
As discussed above, a  product's failure to meet its stated sustainability -related investment 
objectives and strategies could be a type of greenwashing.  Requirements to monitor a product’s 
compliance and  sustainability-related performance  could help prevent greenwashing by 
ensuring that a product is meeting its sustainability -related investment objectives, including 
meeting any sustainability-related performance targets. 
 
Most jurisdictions do not have specific requirements relating to the monitoring of compliance 
and sustainability -related performance of sustainability -related products but have general 
monitoring or compliance requirements that apply to all products.  For example, in the United 
States, there are requirements relating to a registered fund’s board’s adoption of written policies 
and procedures and the appointment of a Chief Compliance Officer, as well as requirements 
relating to annual reviews of the adequacy of those policies and procedures. 
 

=== PAGE 53 ===
 
50 
 
Very few jurisdictions have monitoring requirements that are specific to ensuring compliance 
with a product’s investment objectives.  One such example is Hong Kong, where the manager 
of a SFC-authorised ESG Fund is expected to regularly monitor and evalu ate the fund’s 
underlying investments to ensure that the fund continues to meet its stated ESG focus and 
requirements. 
 
However, member jurisdictions do not generally have requirements relating to the monitoring 
of performance, including sustainability -performance, whether applicable to all products or 
sustainability-related products in particular.  
 
j. Periodic Sustainability-Related Reporting  
 
Requirements in this area address sustainability -related periodic reporting, such as requiring 
products with sustainability-related objectives to report on an ongoing basis the extent to which 
those objectives are being met. 
 
Periodic reporting requirements can help prevent greenwashing by r educing information 
asymmetries.  A product with stated sustainability -related investment objectives may fail to 
follow those objectives in practice.  Periodic reporting relating to whether the product is 
meeting its objectives could help enable investors to monitor a product’s performance  and 
therefore evaluate its ability to meet its sustainability-related objectives on an ongoing basis. 
 
A number of jurisdictions have general performance -related periodic reporting requirements 
that apply to all products .  For example, in the United State s, all open-end registered funds 
must disclose certain performance -related information in their registration statements on an 
ongoing basis.  
 
A few jurisdictions require all products to provide periodic reporting of a product’s past 
performance relative to its benchmark, if applicable.  For example, in Singapore, investment 
schemes are required to disclose in their periodic reporting, where applicable, a comparison of 
the investment scheme’s past performance with that of the benchmark index for the investment 
scheme or an index which reflects the investment focus of the investment scheme. 
 
Several other jurisdictions have specific periodic reporting requirements for sustainability -
related products. 
 
1. Sustainability-related performance reporting 
 
In EU member countries, both Article 8 Products and Article 9 Products are required to provide 
information regarding their sustainability -related performance in periodic reports .  The 
periodic reports of Article 8 Products are required to disclose the extent to which environmental 
or social characteristics are met.  In contrast, the periodic reports of Article 9 Products are 
required to disclose: (i) the overall sustainability‐related impact of the product by means of 
relevant sustainability indicators; or (ii) where a n index has been designated as a reference 
benchmark, a comparison between the overall sustainability‐related impact of the product with 
the impacts of the designated index and of a broad market index through sustainability 
indicators.  
 

=== PAGE 54 ===
 
51 
 
In addition, the EU’s Shareholders Rights Directive II 81 (SRD II) requires asset managers to 
develop and disclose on their website, on an annual basis, an engagement policy that describes 
how they integrate shareholder engagement into their investment strategy.  The RTS, wh en 
they are finalised and implemented, are also expected to require participants in financial 
markets to compare their product performance year to year to measure the achievement of 
sustainability-related targets. 
 
Some EU member jurisdictions also have their own additional requirements for sustainability-
related periodic reporting.  For example, in France, SRI and GreenFin labels impose specific 
annual reporting requirements relating to sustainability -related performance.  The Swedish 
Investment Funds Act also requires fund management companies to provide an annual report 
or a separate report providing a follow-up on the sustainability work that has been carried out. 
 
In Hong Kong, SFC-authorised ESG Funds are required to conduct periodic assessment s, at 
least annually, to provide investors with a description of how the fund has attained its ESG 
focus during the assessment period, a description of the basis of the assessment (such as any 
estimations and limitations), and where the fund has provided previ ous periodic assessments, 
a comparison between the current and at least the previous assessment period.  
 
In Malaysia, the SRI Funds Guidelines require the annual and interim reports of SRI Funds, 
where applicable, to include a review on sustainability aspects of the SRI Fund’s portfolio. The 
SRI Funds Guidelines also recommend that a review on sustainability aspects of the SRI Fund’s 
portfolio, including a commentary on action, outcomes and performance metrics (where 
available) on sustainability topics material to the fund’s portfolio, be made available to 
investors periodically.  
 
2. Other types of periodic reporting for sustainability-related products 
 
Several jurisdictions, including EU member jurisdictions, Malaysia and the UK, require 
periodic reporting relating to the product’s sustainability -related objectives, considerations or 
characteristics.  
 
Some of t hose jurisdictions also impose additional disclosure elements as part of those 
reporting requirements. For example, in Malaysia, a qualified SRI Fund’s annual report and 
interim reports, where applicable, must include a statement that the fund has complied with the 
SRI Fund Guidelines in addition to descriptions of sustainability considerations that have been 
adopted in the socially responsible investing strategies employed. In the UK, the FCA issued 
non-Handbook guidance in Policy Statement PS19/4 stating that funds that set out non -
financial objectives should provide ongoing information to investors about the fund’s non -
financial objectives and be clear about how the asset manager will measure whether those 
objectives are being met. 
 
 Plans to add or change requirements  
 
The CMVM Portugal has indicated that it will publish guidelines and recommendations to 
incentivise products to voluntarily disclose, in their annual reports, whether their investment 
 
81  https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32017L0828  

=== PAGE 55 ===
 
52 
 
policies continue to align with their long -term objectives, as set out in products’ legal 
documents or as per reference to benchmarks.  
 
In addition, by the end of 2021, the EU will add to its disclosure framework for Article 8 
Products and Article 9 Products by requiring  such products , where they make T axonomy 
Regulation-aligned investments, to include  ex-post reporting on the extent to which the 
investments of the product are aligned with the Taxonomy Regulation.  

=== PAGE 56 ===
 
53 
 
Chapter 4: Financial and Investor Education  
 
Investor and financial education play an important role in preventing greenwashing and 
protecting investors by contributing to the alignment of concepts and disclosures and increasing 
risk-awareness among investors in respect of sustainability-related products.  
 
This chapter uses the responses received from the STF and the IOSCO C8 member jurisdictions 
to the financial and investor education survey described in Chapter 1 to provide an overview 
of the current landscape of financial and investor education in sustainable finance. 
 
A. The role of investor education in sustainable finance 
 
i. Context 
 
Financial education is the “process by which financial consumers/investors improve their 
understanding of financial products, concepts and risks and, through information, instruction 
and/or objective advice, develop the skills and confidence to become more aware of financial 
risks and opportunities, to make informed choices, to know where to go for help, and to take 
other effective actions to improve their financial well -being.”82  According to the OECD,  
informed and financially literate individuals are better equipped to deal with the growing 
complexity of the financial market, which may improve not only their own well-being, but also 
market efficiency, as well as contributing to financial inclusion and protecting aga inst 
fraudulent practices.83  Given their aggregated view of the financial market, financial regulators 
are well -positioned to identify the need for and provide, financial and, more specifically, 
investor education.84  
 
Financial and investor education is an essential tool to support sustainable finance, as well as 
to protect investors against greenwashing and sustainability -related risks, as indicated by the 
survey responses.  
 
 
 
82   OECD (2005), Improving Financial Literacy: Analysis of Issues and Policies, OECD Publishing, Paris. 
Available at: https://doi.org/10.1787/9789264012578-en.https://www.oecd-ilibrary.org/finance-and-
investment/improving-financial-literacy_9789264012578-en (Accessed 26 February, 2021). 
83  Please refer to OECD (2017), OECD/INFE Policy Framework for Investor Education , available at: 
http://www.oecd.org/daf/fin/financial-education/OECD-INFE-policy-framework-investor-edu.pdf 
(Accessed 26 February, 2021) and to OECD (2013), Advancing National Strategies for Financ ial 
Education, available at: 
 https://www.oecd.org/finance/financial-education/G20_OECD_NSFinancialEducation.pdf (Accessed 
26 February, 2021).  
84   Key Issue 6 of Principle 3 of the IOSCO Methodology acknowledges that regulators “should play an 
active role in the education of investors and other market participants”: IOSCO (2013), Methodology for 
Assessing Implementation of the IOSCO Objectives and Principles of Securities Regulation, available at: 
https://www.iosco.org/library/pubdocs/pdf/IOSCOPD359.pdf (accessed 26 February, 2021). In addition, 
please refer to IOSCO (2014), Strategic Fra mework for Investor Education and Financial Literacy, 
available at: https://www.iosco.org/library/pubdocs/pdf/IOSCOPD462.pdf (Accessed 26 February 
2021). It is worth mentioning, parti cularly, the work conducted by C8 members in this field. IOSCO 
holds a specific hub for investor education: 
https://www.iosco.org/investor_protection/?subsection=investor_education_gateway ). 

=== PAGE 57 ===
 
54 
 
ii. Survey responses 
 
All respondents to the survey agreed that financial and investor education can play a role in 
sustainable finance.  The respondents identified different ways in which financial and investor 
education can support sustainable finance, including:  
 
• building awareness and informing investors so that they can better identify 
greenwashing, misleading advertising and marketing, and misinformation  
• supporting investors who want to consider social and environmental impacts in their 
investments 
• improving understanding of sustainability-related disclosures 
• supporting the mainstreaming of sustainable finance 
• increasing demand for sustainable investment products 
• empowering beneficiaries of impact investment projects (e.g.  microfinance). 
 
In addition to the above, one jurisdiction highlighted that financial and investor education can 
help increase awareness of the sustainability-related risks encompassed in the financial market 
and promote sustainable investment according to the UN SDGs.  Another jurisdiction 
highlighted the importance of providing capacity -building for listed companies and 
institutional investors in order to improve sustainability efficiency and market disclosure.  
 
These findings reveal the strong links between investor education and the other topics covered 
in this report.  In particular, the effectiveness of regulation of sustainability -related disclosure 
by asset managers and sustainability-related products may be enhanced through financial and 
investor education initiatives in order to prevent greenwashing.  This can be further reinforced 
as investors become empowered to demand that asset managers adopt best practices and 
provide transparency on sustainable finance instruments and products. 
 
iii. Execution 
 
a. Current financial and investor education initiatives 
 
More than half of the jurisdictions have implemented at least one financial and investor 
education initiative relating to sustainable finance, including sustainability-related risks.  Some 
of the jurisdictions that have not yet imple mented these types of initiatives explained that the 
absence of such programmes is due to the complexity of the subject and the lack of maturity in 
certain sustainable topics.  However, the majority of the jurisdictions that have not yet started 
such initiatives indicated that they are willing to undertake sustainability -related fin ancial 
education activities in the future. 
 
Of the jurisdictions that have already implemented sustainability-focused investor and financial 
education programmes, the most common financial and investor education initiatives were 
those dedicated to sustainability-related instruments and products .  Of these instruments and 
products, the most common types covered were green, social and sustainable bonds.  These 
initiatives included publications about thematic bonds and guidance on how to read product 
documentation and identify ESG characteristics.  The second most common types of products 
covered were ESG -labelled funds, and the initiatives were focused on recommending that 

=== PAGE 58 ===
 
55 
 
investors pay attention to the methodology and corresponding ESG criteria applied by the asset 
manager to a sustainability-related product.  
 
Social risks, primarily relating to gender equality, in addition to other human rights topics such 
as labour rights and diversity, and sustainability and climate -related transparency, primarily 
relating to companies’ non-financial disclosure about sustainability and climate-related issues, 
were the second-most common areas of focus for financial and investor education initiatives.  
 
More than a third of the jurisdictions have also implemented initiatives  relating to climate, 
environmental and greenwashing risks. Of the initiatives focused on climate and environmental 
risks, the focus was on financial and operational impacts stemming from climate change, waste 
management, a circular economy and pollution c ontrol. Initiatives focused on greenwashing 
risks included: educational content for retail investors to clarify the need to assess various 
documents connected to sustainable financial products; orienting investors to check 
sustainability-related disclosures instead of only relying on a product’s “green” label; events 
and consultations to draw attention to greenwashing risks; and a platform to provide 
information on green bonds, including information about the use of proceeds. Some regulators 
focused on the importance of assessing the sustainability reports, policies and governance 
practices of target companies or other vehicles for investment. 
 
Many jurisdictions also implemented initiatives relating to sustainability-focused asset 
managers, standard setters  and ESG credit rating agencies .  These initiatives were primarily 
focused on enhancing the awareness of various market participants, including financial 
institutions, stock exchanges, investors and market associations, about sustainability -focused 
asset managers, standard setters and ESG credit rating agencies.   The initiatives also focused 
on standard setters such as the TCFD, the UN SDGs, and reporting frameworks such as the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and 
the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). 
 
About a third of the jurisdictions that have implemented initiatives have focused on impact 
investment and sustainable taxonomies and certifications .  The impact investment -related 
initiatives considered the features of such instruments, how to measure and evaluate their 
impact, as well as how to understand the context of their potential socio -environmental 
benefits.  Some of these jurisdictions also referred to guidelines for green bonds and highlighted 
environmental certifications and the adoption of international standards, such as those from the 
International Capital Market Association (ICMA) and the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI).   
 
Other initiatives included publications and partnersh ips dedicated to sustainable finance, 
awareness of the UN SDGs, and responsible investment.  The initiatives also focused on 
strengthening the financial inclusion of vulnerable groups, children, youth, and minorities, 
thereby building a more inclusive and resilient market for sustainable finance. 
 
As discussed, there have been a variety of sustainability-related subjects included in regulators’ 
financial and investor education initiatives so far.  Although some issues have been more 
developed or prioritised  than others, the general efforts of jurisdictions to incorporate 
sustainability-related risks and sustainable finance in their investor education agendas are 
notable.  Further advancements in this area may follow the evolution of sustainability -related 
issues within the market, given that there are still many evolving and non-standardised concepts 
that have yet to be harmonised.  

=== PAGE 59 ===
 
56 
 
b. Future financial and investor education initiatives 
 
Approximately three quarters of the jurisdictions reported a willingness to conduct 
sustainability-focused financial and investor education initiatives in the future, including 
starting new initiatives or continuing ongoing ones in 2021.  The areas of focus identified were 
the same as those referenced in the section above, namely: sustainable finance instruments and 
products; climate change -related risks; environmental risks; sustainable taxonomy and 
certifications; social risks; greenwashing risks; sustainability and climate-related transparency; 
sustainability-focused asset managers, standard setters, ESG credit rating agencies; and impact 
investment.  
 
The main topics highlighted for each subject were similar to those of initiatives that have 
already been implemented, such as gender equality, thematic bonds, and ES G-labelled funds, 
as discussed above.  
 
Only a quarter of the respondents stated they do not currently intend to undertake any 
sustainability-focused financial and investor education initiatives.   These jurisdictions 
identified the need to first study the best approach for the advancement of such issues within 
their jurisdictions. 
 
The IOSCO’s fifth annual WIW took place from 4 to 10 October 2021 with the objective s of 
raising awareness of the importance of investor education and protection and highlight ing the 
various initiatives of securities regulators in these two critical areas. As was permitted in 2020 
due to the COVID -19 pandemic, jurisdictions may choose any other week in October or 
November to promote financial and investor education.  The fifth WIW  has two additional 
themes, namely sustainable finance and fraud and scam prevention, and the WIW will include 
a social media presence and a webinar on the importance of investor education in sustainable 
finance.   
 
To complement the STF’s leading efforts on sustainable finance, the IOSCO C8 will develop 
retail investor education tools, includ ing practical guidance to enhance investors’ financial 
literacy in the area of sustainable finance.  This project will involve engagement with relevant 
stakeholders, in close coordination with the STF.  The main objective will be to strengthen the 
protection of retail investors by providing them with information about the characteristics of 
sustainable-related financial products. 
 
c. Types of initiatives and modes of delivery 
 
All the jurisdictions that have either already implemented, or are planning to imple ment, 
sustainability-focused financial and investor education initiatives agreed that websites should 
be the main source of information. Examples include online courses, guidance, and 
publications, among other types of program mes. Social media and videos w ere also popular 
modes of delivery for conveying financial education in the area of sustainability, and the 
platforms used encompass Instagram Live, Facebook Live, TV spots, YouTube, Twitter, and 
LinkedIn. 
 
Approximately half of the jurisdictions considere d courses, including those provided via the 
internet (e.g., e -learning, massive open online courses, lectures), as important tools to reach 
their target audience in sustainable finance.  A significant number of the jurisdictions also 

=== PAGE 60 ===
 
57 
 
identified in-person events and the incorporation of financial education into school curricula to 
be relevant channels of distribution. The World Investor Week, promoted annually by the 
IOSCO, was also identified as an important event. 
 
Some jurisdictions also highlighted the use of news media campaigns, pre-trade financial risk 
assessment or investor surveys, hard -copy brochures, podcasts, blogs, infographics, EdTech 
and apps.  
 
In conclusion, there is widespread agreement among member jurisdictions that the internet is 
the main platform for the dissemination of content for financial and investor education.  The 
COVID-19 pandemic has also demonstrated the importance of reaching th e wider public 
through the internet, reducing plans for in-person courses or events.  The internet’s flexibility 
and adaptability make it a useful tool for jurisdictions aiming to expand financial and investor 
education in sustainable finance to a broader audience. 
 
d. Target audience and partnerships and collaborations 
 
All of the jurisdictions that have implemented, or that intend to implement, financial and 
investor education initiatives on sustainability identified retail investors as their target 
audience.  Two-thirds of the jurisdictions also identified the public at large, including children 
and youths in school.  More than half of the jurisdictions also identified a variety of market 
participants as the target audience, including issuers, market associations and asset managers. 
Institutional investors were also identified by one-third of the jurisdictions.  
 
Most jurisdictions that have implemented, or that intend to implement, financial and investor 
education initiatives have partnerships and collaborations with associations, schools and 
government agencies.  Such collaborations can engage a wider or more specific audience that 
regulators alone may not be able to reach. 
 
These findings highlight regulators’ continuous efforts towards providing education to retail 
investors but reveal that there is also interest in a more holistic approach that includes all market 
participants and society at large. 
 
e. Providers of sustainability-focused financial and investor education 
 
The types of organisations that are currently engaging in sustainability -focused financial and 
investor education initiatives across the jurisdictions are, from the most to least common:  
 
• institutes of higher learning (e.g. graduate and executive education), including graduate, 
extension and masters courses focusing on ESG and sustainable finance, and business 
schools 
• institutional and/or retail investor organisations, including capital market associations 
• fund management as sociations for continuous professional training, including 
sustainable finance programmes targeting investing professionals 
• community-based financial literacy program mes for retail investors, including public 
and private associations providing financial literacy education and general advice on 
sustainable finance 
• licensing organisations for the advising and selling of investment products in relation 
to sustainability, including sustainability competency requirements 

=== PAGE 61 ===
 
58 
 
• organisations providing board  certification, including investor councils, the CFA 
Institute and corporate governance institutes. 
 
Other types of organisations include responsible investment associations for investors and 
investment professionals, audit companies, consumer advice cente rs and  associations, non -
governmental organisations, stock exchanges, bankers’  associations, green academies, and 
public banks. 
These findings indicate that a wide and diverse range of organisations participate in providing 
sustainability-focused financial and investor education and as such, regulators may wish to 
engage with other types of organisations that are already conducting such initiatives. 
 
iv. Challenges ahead 
 
Most jurisdictions identified a number of  challenges in implementing sustainability -focused 
financial and investor education initiatives: 
 
• Limited financial resources, infrastructure and skilled human resources to conduct 
financial and investor education initiatives, including: a lack of internal  capacity-
building; a lack of infrastructure for virtual platforms and educational channels; the risk 
of misleading or providing outdated information due to the quick and continuous 
evolution of sustainable finance; difficulties in comprehension of greenwashing issues; 
and the costs and different levels of preparedness of disclosure by companies and 
products; 
 
• Lack of standardisation and clear guidance on disclosure, taxonomies, and regulatory 
approaches to sustainable finance; and 
 
• Insufficient understanding of guidelines, data, and methodologies to apply in initiatives, 
including: difficulties in understanding investors’ motivations; the lack of comparable 
qualitative and quantitative data; the need to cooperate with different market actors; 
difficulties i n enhancing retail investors’ confidence in sustainable finance and 
comprehension of potential  financial returns; difficulties in outreach to adults for 
financial education; the absence of obligatory content in school curricula; low digital 
literacy; the n eed to develop methods to reach younger investors; and the need to 
develop educational and informational material to clarify investment products.  

=== PAGE 62 ===
 
59 
 
Chapter 5: Challenges 
 
Interest in sustainability has soared among the investor community in recent years, bringing 
with it the development of sustainability-related products and the sales and marketing of such 
products to investors. However, there are a number of challenges ass ociated with the 
proliferation of sustainability-related products, such as data gaps at the corporate level, issues 
arising from the proliferation of data and ESG ratings providers, lack of consistency in 
terminology as well as labelling and classification, different interpretations of materiality, gaps 
in skills and expertise, and evolving regulatory approaches.  This chapter explores these 
challenges. 
 
A. Data gaps at the corporate level   
 
As of 2020, the percentage of the largest 100 companies in 52 countries (5,200 companies) that 
published sustainability reports has risen by 5 percentage points since the last KPMG survey 
in 2017, from 75 to 80 percent. 85  However, as highlighted in TCFD’s 2020 stat us report,86 
while the number of companies and the volume of disclosure have increased, companies’ 
disclosures of the financial impact of climate change on their business, strategies and financial 
planning remain low.  
 
Consistent, comparable,  and decision-useful sustainability-information from companies is 
therefore more important than ever for all types of investors interested in sustainability.  This 
includes asset managers wishing to expand their product range to include sustainability-related 
products or strengthening their internal capabilities to appropriately assess and manage 
sustainability-related risks. 
 
Corporate-level ESG data is important for asset managers for a number of reasons. Firstly, 
asset managers need to have access to information that is consistent, comparable, and decision-
useful in order to identify the types of companies that will allow them to meet the investment 
objectives of their sustainability-related products. Further, corporate-level ESG information is 
important so that asset managers can assess such companies on an ongoing basis and determine 
the continued suitability of such companies as underlying investments.  Finally, reliable 
information at the corporate level is essential for asset managers whose investment stra tegies 
require them to influence the corporate behaviour of companies through proxy voting or 
shareholder engagement.87  
 
However, there are a number of challenges relating to corporate -level sustainability-related 
data. Firstly, sustainability -related disclosures can be both quantitative and qualitative, and 
both have their own unique challenges.  Quantitative disclosures may be limited and are often 
 
85  https://assets.kpmg/content/dam/kpmg/be/pdf/2020/12/The_Time_Has_Come_KPMG_Survey_of_  
 Sustainability_Reporting_2020.pdf 
86  TCFD, TCFD 2020 Status Report 
87  Appel, Ian and Gormley, Todd A. and Keim, Donald B., Passive Investors, Not Passive Owners 
(February 6, 2016). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Available at 
SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2475150 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2475150 

=== PAGE 63 ===
 
60 
 
not based on consistent methodology, even for the same metric, over time.  Qualitative 
disclosures raise issues of consistency, reliability, and comparability.88 
 
In addition, there is the issue of a lack of a single framework in this area. Several frameworks 
relating to the assessment and disclosure of sustainability-related matters at the corporate level 
already exist.  These frameworks can support both companies’ disclosures and asset managers’ 
investment processes by setting out structure, definitions, metrics and methodologies for 
corporate-level disclosure.  However, the market has not converged on a single framework and 
as such, these frameworks are inconsistently applied throughout various jurisdictions and 
typically only on a voluntary basis.  
 
Incomplete and inconsistent sustainability-related disclosures at the corporate level may have 
implications at the product level for product design, delivery, and disclosure, as well as ongoing 
performance reporting, which could lead to investor harm.  As part of the STF’s Workstream 
1, two pieces of fact -finding work were conducted to understand what sustainabilit y-related 
information users of corporate-level information seek to inform their investment decisions, and 
the gaps and shortcomings associated with access to this information. 89  Asset managers, as 
users of corporate-level disclosures, indicated that the lack of complete, consistent, and reliable 
disclosures at the corporate level has an impact on the quality of the information that they use 
to manage their products’ portfolios and, as a consequence, may compromise the type and 
quality of information that they are able to provide to their investors.  
 
Without the requisite data at the corporate level, asset management firms may be unable to 
assess the effectiveness of their sustainability-related investment strategies.  They may also be 
unable to demonstrate  to investors that their products are investing in accordance with their 
stated objectives.  These issues could increase the risk that investors buy unsuitable products 
and in certain circumstances, may lead to involuntary greenwashing, whereby the starting point 
in the information chain is not of reliable, comparable or consistent quality. 
 
As such, globally consistent, comparable, and decision-useful disclosures at the corporate level 
are important for asset managers and their products, and  the IOSCO sees an urgent need to 
improve the consistency  and comparability of sustainability reporting to support investors’ 
evolving informational needs and the ability of markets to price sustainability-related risks and 
opportunities and support capital allocation. 
 
Over the year since the STF was established, the IOSCO notes that global momentum has been 
building in both public and private sector initiatives on sustainability -related disclosures.  An 
important aspect of the STF’s work has been engagement with the IFRS Foundation’s efforts 
to develop a common set of global sustainability -related reporting  standards to help meet 
investor needs and to set a sound baseline for jurisdictions to consider when setting or 
implementing their sustainability-related disclosure requirements  
 
In a separate report published in June 2021,90 the IOSCO set out its vision and expectation for 
the ISSB that is being established under the IFRS Foundation.  The report encourages continued 
 
88   Same as footnote 7 
89   Same as footnote 7 
90  Same as footnote 7 

=== PAGE 64 ===
 
61 
 
progress towards globally consistent sustainabil ity-related disclosures at the corporate level 
across jurisdictions, covering a breadth of sustainability-related topics and leveraging existing 
principles, frameworks, and guidance.   The report also promotes a greater emphasis on 
industry-specific, quantitative metrics in corporate sustainability -related disclosures and the 
standardisation of qualitative information. 
 
B. Proliferation of data and ESG rating providers  
 
The current lack of a consistent framework for corporate -level sustainability-related 
disclosures has left a gap in which third party data and rating providers have stepped in to 
provide information to investors, including asset managers.  One challenge associated with this 
proliferation of data and ESG rating providers and asset managers’ reliance on them is the lack 
of reliability and consistency in ESG data and ratings.91  While this may be in part due to a lack 
of transparency92 about the methodologies behind such data and ratings, this issue may also 
arise because the providers themselves rely on information from corporate issuers.93  With the 
growing use of ESG data and ratings from data providers, there may be systemic over-reliance 
from asset managers on opaque ESG data and ratings from third-party providers.94  
 
The IOSCO is aware of the inadequate level of disclosures by data and rating providers around 
their methodologies, as well as the reliance on such providers to fill in the gaps in corporate -
level disclosures.  The IOSCO STF’s Workstream 3 has examined these issues and its report95 
provides recommendations in this area. 
 
C. Lack of consistency in terminology 
 
Another notable challenge is the lack of consistent terminology and definitions relating to 
sustainability in the asset management industry.  For example, at the product level, many terms 
are currently used to describe sustainability -related products, such as “impact fund”, 
“sustainable fund”, “social fund,” “low carbon funds” and “Paris -aligned funds.” There may 
also be confusion over terms used to descr ibe ESG strategies such as “ESG integration” and 
“negative screening.”  However, there are currently no agreed-upon definitions for these terms, 
making it difficult for investors to understand such products or effectively compare such 
products. This issue is compounded as products are marketed and distributed across 
jurisdictions, where different understanding of terminologies can cause further investor-related 
concerns for regulators.  
 
 
91  Boffo, R., and R. Patalano (2020), ESG Investing: Practices, Progress and Challenges , OECD Paris, 
www.oecd.org/finance/ESG-Investing-Practices-Progress-and-Challenges.pdf  
92  AFM, French and Dutch financial market authorities call for a European regulation of ESG data, ratings, 
and related services (Dec 2020) 
93  https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/literature/whitepaper/viewpoint-towards-a-common-language-
for- sustainable-investing-january- 2020.pdf 
94  BaFin Guidance Notice on Dealing with Sustainability Risks  (January 15 2020), online: 
https://www.bafin.de/SharedDocs/Downloads/EN/Merkblatt/dl_mb_Nachhaltigkeitsrisiken_en.html;jse
ssionid=DBA8E9C5618DF7101A5A7C38DA5AC6AF.2_cid393?nn=9866146 .  
95  Same as footnote 10 

=== PAGE 65 ===
 
62 
 
As discussed in Chapter 3, a lack of clarity about the nature of a product’s investment objectives 
and strategies may lead to greenwashing. 
 
Another concept that faces inconsistency in terminology and definitions is “temperature 
alignment.”  Owing to the demand for sustainability -related products, some  asset managers 
provide information about the measurement of a portfolio’s implied temperature or alignment 
with a 1.5 or 2° scenario.  However, the concept of “alignment with temperature trajectory” 
still remains unclear from the investor and investment po rtfolio perspectives  and faces 
methodological challenges .  Furthermore, the underlying analytical frameworks and 
methodologies across different types of temperature alignment assessment approaches suffer 
from a lack of transparency and at times, consistency. This creates an obstacle to the credibility, 
comparison, and usefulness of the results.96  
 
The issue of a lack of consistency in terminology is addressed in Recommendation 4 in    
Chapter 6. 
 
D. Lack of consistency in labelling and classification 
 
Related but separate to the issue of a lack of consistency in terminology is a lack of consistency 
in labelling and classification systems.  For example, while labelling and classification systems 
have been developed in certain jurisdictions to catalogue and define ESG activities, they differ 
across jurisdictions both in terms of scope and the degree of compulsion.  
 
There are two main categories of labels: labels focusing more broadly on ESG and those 
focusing specifically on environmental sustainability, often referred to as “green”. Some labels 
are developed by financial market participants, some by professional associations, and the rest 
by specialised environmental labelling organisations.  All labels aim to guarantee a particular 
level of quality regarding sustainable asset management.  In terms of assets under management 
and attractiveness for European-based fund managers, two labels in particular that have grown 
rapidly in use  since 2019 are the French public “ SRI” label and the Belgia n “Towards 
Sustainability” label.97  
 
In addition, in the current interconnected financial market, the co -existence of multiple 
labelling and classification schemes may lead to inconsistencies and differences across 
industries, asset classes and regions. T his issue may lead to market fragmentation and 
regulatory arbitrage, which in turn could lead to an increase in instances of greenwashing.  
 
This issue is addressed in Recommendation 2 in Chapter 6. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
96   THE ALIGNMENT COOKBOOK A Technical Review of Methodologies Assessing a Portfolio’s 
Alignment with Low -Carbon Trajectories or Te mperature Goal, https://www.louisbachelier.org/wp-
content/uploads/2020/07/rapport-0207-mis-a-jours.pdf  
97  https://www.novethic.com/sustainable-finance-trends/detail/overview-of-european-sustainable-finance-
labels-2020.html   

=== PAGE 66 ===
 
63 
 
E. Different interpretations of materiality 
 
The IOSCO, through its STF Workstream 1, has looked into issues of materiality in the context 
of sustainability-related information, as set out in its June 2021 report.98  The report states that 
distinction is often drawn between financial materiality and envi ronmental/social materiality. 
Traditionally, these different lenses have been associated with the differing information needs 
of investors (financial materiality) vis-à-vis other stakeholders, such as customers, employees, 
suppliers and civil society (envi ronmental and social materiality). Reporting on both 
dimensions is often referred to as applying a double materiality lens. 
 
The current work of the Alliance of Sustainability Reporting Organisations (the Alliance) has 
recently demonstrated that materiality is in fact a dynamic concept .  Sustainability -related 
topics may become more material over time in response to changes in companies’ operating 
environments and investor expectations. The distinction between inves tors and other 
stakeholders’ information needs to continue to evolve.  In December 2020, the Alliance 
developed and published a prototype climate -related financial disclosure standard (the 
Prototype) which incorporates the dynamic nature of materiality.  The Prototype demonstrates 
that drawing a hard line between ‘enterprise value’ and ‘impact’ is not helpful for defining 
information that will help investors determine enterprise value. 
 
A company’s material external sustainability impacts will often also impact its future 
development, performance, position and, as a result, potentially enterprise value.  This point is 
likely more apparent at least over a sufficiently long investment horizon.  
 
Across all sectors and industries, companies depend to varying degrees on natural, social and 
human capital to create and preserve enterprise value.  These assets are not always captured on 
company balance sheets but can be critical for value generation. Companies’ dependencies on 
these assets, and how they protect and contribute to the stewardship of these assets, can 
therefore inherently influence investors’ decisions.  For example, where companies depend on 
ecosystem goods and services that flow fr om natural capital assets – such as air and water 
filtration, food and water production, and climate regulation – investors would benefit from 
disclosures on the management of these dependencies to make informed decisions.  
 
F. Gaps in skills and expertise 
 
The skills and expertise required to effectively integrate sustainability -related risks and 
opportunities are another significant challenge faced by asset managers.  Specialised skills and 
expertise are important components in the integration of sustainabil ity-related metrics in the 
investment decision-making process and risk management procedures and may help prevent 
greenwashing. 
 
While professional education and training relating to sustainability are only starting to take 
shape, asset management firms may want to consider whether to re -assess their approach to 
evaluating such skills and expertise in their staff as well as third -party service providers.  The 
development of common standards and definitions can provide more structure and consistency 
 
98  Same as footnote 7 
 

=== PAGE 67 ===
 
64 
 
that can allow senior management and the boards of these firms to successfully integrate 
sustainability into the philosophy of their firms where they seek to do so and in the development 
programmes of individual staff who will participate in the development and ongoing 
management of sustainability-related products.  
 
This issue is addressed in Recommendation 5 in Chapter 6. 
 
G. Evolving regulatory approaches  
 
A majority of the market participants consulted as part of the IOSCO’s report on Sustainable 
Finance and the Role of Securities Regulators and IOSCO  suggested that counteracting 
greenwashing and mis -selling was an important issue for cons ideration by regulators. Some 
advocated for a stronger role by securities regulators in identifying and facilitating the 
development of sustainable investments.99  
 
However, the 2019 survey of securities regulators done as part of the work leading to that report 
indicated that jurisdictions have taken different regulatory approaches to sustainability-related 
products. Only 45 percent of regulators surveyed indicated that they had carried out supervisory 
functions relating to the risks associated with the gr eenwashing of financial products. Sixty -
four percent of these regulators indicated they had no specific rules directed at greenwashing, 
relying on existing rules of misrepresentation and wrongful disclosure for listed and unlisted 
products to supervise and, where appropriate, bring enforcement actions against firms.100  
 
Divergence in regulatory approaches across different jurisdictions may exacerbate the 
aforementioned challenges relating to gaps and inconsistency in data and a lack of consistent 
terminology. This divergence also contributes to a lack of comparability for sustainability -
related products and difficulties in decision -making and monitoring for investors, facilitating  
greenwashing and leading to other risks to market integrity and investor protection.  
 
However, there are some commonalities across the regulatory approaches of different 
jurisdictions, as discussed in Chapters 2 and 3.  Chapter 6 aims to address this issue by setting 
out recommendations that securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, should 
consider in order to improve sustainability -related practices, policies, procedures and 
disclosure in the asset management industry. 
 
 
  
 
99   FR04/2020, online: https://www.iosco.org/library/pubdocs/pdf/IOSCOPD652.pdf.  
100   Ibid, page 8.  

=== PAGE 68 ===
 
65 
 
Chapter 6: Recommendations  
 
This chapter sets out recommendations that securities regulators and/or policymakers, as 
applicable, should consider  in order to improve sustainability -related practices, policies, 
procedures and disclosure in the asset management industry.   These recommendations, which 
reflect comments received on the Consultation Report, are designed to provide a list of potential 
areas for consideration as regulators and policymakers consider developing sustainability -
related rules and regulations, consiste nt with their mandate s and domestic regulatory 
frameworks.  
 
Recommendation 1: Asset Manager Practices, Policies, Procedures and Disclosure.  
Securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, should consider setting 
regulatory and supervisory expectations for asset managers in respect of the: (a) 
development and implementation of practices, policies and procedures relating to 
material sustainability-related risks and opportunities; and (b) related disclosure. 
 
Sustainability-related practices, policies and procedures help ensure that asset managers take 
material sustainability-related risks and opportunities into consideration and integrate them into 
their decision-making process.  The disclosure of such practices, policies and proce dures is 
intended to promote consistency, comparability, and reliability in disclosure, which, as 
discussed in Chapter 2, will help prevent greenwashing at the asset manager level.  
 
This recommendation is intended to cover all asset managers, regardless of whether they take 
sustainability-related risks and opportunities into consideration in their investment process.  
However, it is not intended to suggest that all asset managers should offer sustainability-related 
products; asset managers that do not offer  sustainability-related products may still consider 
material sustainability-related risks and opportunities as part of their role as fiduciaries of client 
assets. 
 
Asset managers could consider referencing the TCFD Framework in their disclosures of 
climate-related risks and opportunities.  Asset managers could also consider adopting a phased-
in approach to expanding such disclosures beyond climate -related risks and opportunities to 
other sustainability -related risks and opportunities  by referencing  the TCFD  Framework. 
Securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, could also consider adopting a 
phased-in approach to implementing their regulatory and supervisory expectations to recognise 
the cost of compliance, including for smaller, less-resourced asset managers, where applicable. 
 
Specifically, the practices, policies and procedures relating to material sustainability -related 
risks and opportunities and the disclosure thereof could cover the following areas:  
 
i. Governance: The asset manager’s governance around material sustainability -related 
risks and opportunities 
ii. Investment strategy : How material sustainability -related risks and opportunities are 
factored into the asset manager’s investment strategies and inves tment process, 
including, where relevant, the data and methodologies used 
iii. Risk management: How the asset manager identifies, assesses, and manages material 
sustainability-related risks 
iv. Metrics and targets: The metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant material 
sustainability-related risks and opportunities where such information is material. 

=== PAGE 69 ===
 
66 
 
These expectations would apply to asset managers in their capacity as fiduciaries of client 
assets, rather than in their capacity as public companies with shareholders.  We note that asset 
managers may provide climate -related financial disclosures in their capacity as public 
companies to shareholders and as asset managers to clients. As such, some elements of 
disclosure may overlap.101  
 
Securities regulators and/or policymakers could also consider requiring that any firm -level 
commitments to other international or regional sustainability -related initiatives be disclosed, 
and that any relevant signatory reports be made publicly available, where appropriate. 
 
Recommendation 2: Product Disclosure.   Securities regulators and/or policymakers, as 
applicable, should consider clarifying and/or expanding on existing regulatory 
requirements or guidance or, if necessary, creating new regulatory requirements or 
guidance, to improve product -level disclosure in order to help investors better 
understand: (a) sustainability -related products; and (b) material sustainability -related 
risks for all products. 
 
Regulatory requirements or guidance relating to product -level disclosure for sustainability -
related products are intended to promote consistency, comparability, and reliability in 
disclosure, which, as discussed in Chapter 3, will help prevent greenwashing at the product 
level. 
 
This recommendation is intended to cov er all products that consider sustainability in their 
investment decision -making or that market themselves as sustainable products. The one 
exception is the disclosure of material sustainability-related risks by all products. 
 
The requirements or guidance relating to product -level disclosure could cover the following 
areas, which have been discussed in detail in Chapter 3: 
 
i. Product authorisation : A product authorisation system (whether disclosure -based, 
application-based or a combination of both) that sets out disclosure expectations for 
sustainability-related products that wish to be offered to the public. 
 
The expectation is not that securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, set 
up a separate product authorisation system for sustainability -related products in 
particular; a product authorisation system that applies to all types of products wou ld 
satisfy this recommendation so long as it sets out disclosure expectations for 
sustainability-related products that wish to be offered to the public.  
 
ii. Naming: Parameters around the naming of sustainability-related products to help ensure 
that the name of the product accurately reflects the nature and extent of the product’s 
sustainability focus, including promoting consistency with the product’s name and its 
investment objectives, characteristics and/or strategies. 
 
Securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, could consider permitting a 
product to reference sustainability in its name only if the investment objectives refer 
to sustainability. 
 
101   Same as footnote 7 

=== PAGE 70 ===
 
67 
 
 
iii. Labelling and classification: Parameters around the use of sustainability-related labels 
and/or cla ssification systems by sustainability -related products to help promote the 
consistent and correct use of labels and classification systems. 
 
Labelling and classification refer to how a product is labelled or categorised beyond the 
product’s name.  Labelling includes, for example, the use of ESG or SRI labels as well 
as third-party certifications. Classification includes the use of ESG product types for 
product categorisation schemes. 
 
iv. Investment objectives disclosure : Disclosure in product offering documents about 
sustainability-related products’ investment objectives (including the fundamental 
nature or features of the products). 
 
Investment objectives disclosure provides transparency about the nature and extent of 
a product’s sustainability -related investment objectives, including which components 
of sustainability the product is focused on and whether sustainability is a primary focus 
of the product. 
 
v. Investment strategies disclosure : Disclosure about sustainability -related products’ 
investment strategies in product offering documents (including, in particular, their 
sustainability-related investment strategies), which could include disclosure about the 
investment universe, investment selection process (including the types of ESG 
strategies used, as well as the use of indices and ESG scores or ratings, the extent of 
such use, and their methodologies, where applicable), sustainability criteria used, and 
extent of the portfolio's focus on sustainability. 
 
vi. Proxy voting and shareholder enga gement disclosure: Disclosure, where relevant: (a) 
about sustainability-related products’ use of proxy voting and shareholder engagement, 
which could include disclosure about proxy voting and shareholder engagement 
policies (including where to access those  policies); and (b) of past proxy voting and 
shareholder engagement records (which could include disclosure about how the past 
proxy voting and shareholder engagements records align with and help advance the 
sustainability-related investment objectives or characteristics of the sustainability -
related product). 
 
Securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, could consider imposing 
proxy voting and shareholder engagement disclosure requirements at the asset manager 
level rather than at the product level.  However, they could consider imposing 
requirements at the product level to the extent that a product specifically refers to proxy 
voting and shareholder engagement as part of its investment objectives or strategies, or 
where a product makes claims about its use of proxy voting and shareholder 
engagement. 
 
vii. Risk disclosure : Disclosure of: (a) material risks by sustainability -related products, 
including any unique risks that arise from a product’s foc us on sustainability; and (b) 
material sustainability-related risks by all products. 
 

=== PAGE 71 ===
 
68 
 
Risk disclosure by sustainability -related products addresses the disclosure of all 
material risks associated with investing in the specific sustainability-related product and 
enables investors to better understand the potential risks associated with the product. 
This type of risk disclosure could include any unique risks that arise from a product’s 
focus on sustainability, such as concentration in certain types of investme nts and 
reliance on third-party providers for sustainability-related ratings. 
 
Disclosure of material sustainability-related risks by all types of products, including 
products that are not sustainability -related, assists investors with making informed 
investment decisions about how material sustainability-related issues can impact their 
investments. This type of risk disclosure could include any material risks that arise from 
sustainability-related issues. 
 
viii. Marketing materials and website disclosure: Content requirements for marketing 
materials and communications, including websites, of sustainability-related products to 
promote disclosures that are fair, balanced and consistent with their regulatory filings. 
 
The concept of marketing materials and communications of sustainability -related 
products being consistent with their regulatory documents is intended to ensure that 
marketing materials and communications are not inaccurate or misleading as compared 
to a product’s regulatory documents.  
 
This recommendation is focused on the content of marketing materials and website 
disclosure rather than the format in order to focus on promoting transparency and 
consistency in the content of marketing materials and website  disclosure. However, 
securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, could consider providing 
minimum standards or guidelines relating to the format and presentation of marketing 
materials and websites depending on the needs of their jurisdiction. 
 
ix. Monitoring of compliance and sustainability -related performance: Encouraging asset 
managers to assess, measure and monitor: (a) the sustainability -related product’s 
compliance with its investment objectives and/or characteristics; (b) the sustainabilit y 
impact of its portfolio to the extent applicable to the portfolio’s stated design; and (c) 
its sustainability-related performance. 
 
The sustainability impact of a sustainability -related product’s portfolio refers to the 
effect of the product’s portfolio holdings on environmental, social and/or governance 
issues. 
 
x. Periodic sustainability -related reporting : Periodic reporting relating to whether a 
sustainability-related product is meeting its sustainability-related investment objectives 
or characteristics, including the product’s sustainability -related performance and 
holdings, during the applicable time period. This would include both quantitative 
information, where reasonably available, and qualitative information. 
 
This recommendation is focused on sustai nability-related performance reporting in 
order to enable investors to monitor a product’s performance and therefore evaluate the 
product’s ability to meet its sustainability -related objectives or characteristics on an 
ongoing basis. 

=== PAGE 72 ===
 
69 
 
 
We acknowledge that sustainability -related metrics are under development and that 
securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, may not choose to consider the 
disclosure of specific sustainability -related metrics at this time. However, where an 
asset manager has identified or developed its own metrics or specifically referenced 
metrics as part of a sustainability -related product ’s investment objectives or 
characteristics, securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, could consider 
whether periodic sustainability -related reporting should include such metrics and the 
methodologies behind the metrics. 
 
Recommendation 3:  Supervision and Enforcement.   Securities regulators and/or 
policymakers, as applicable, should have supervisory tools to monitor and assess whether 
asset managers and sustainability -related products are in compliance with regulatory 
requirements and enforcement tools to address any breaches of such requirements. 
 
As discussed in Chapter 2, supervisory and enforcement tools can help prevent greenwashing 
at both the asset manager and product levels and promote investor confidence in asset managers 
that take sustainability -related risks and opportunities into consideration as well as 
sustainability-related products. 
 
As a starting point, securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, should examine 
the use of existing rules and tools for superv ision and enforcement. This could include 
supervisory dialogue with asset managers. 
 
Recommendation 4: Terminology.   Securities regulators and/or policymakers, as 
applicable, should consider encouraging industry participants to develop common 
sustainable finance-related terms and definitions, including relating to ESG approaches, 
to ensure consistency throughout the global asset management industry. 
 
As discussed in Chapter 5, there is currently a lack of consistency around the use of 
sustainability-related terminology in the asset management industry, which increases the 
potential for investor confusion around sustainability -related products, contributing to 
greenwashing.   
 
Securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, can play a role in promoting industry 
coalescence around a set of consistent sustainability -related terms. We note that the issue of 
terminology is distinct from the issue of labelling and classification, as terminology covers 
broader concepts beyond product types, such as ESG app roaches (e.g., ESG integration, 
negative screening, best -in-class) and definitions of commonly used sustainability -related 
terms such as “green”.  
 
We note that while there are existing initiatives in different jurisdictions addressing the issue 
of what is “sustainable” or “green”, for example, there is a particular need for the development 
of common terms and definitions for ESG approaches. 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 73 ===
 
70 
 
Recommendation 5: Financial and Investor Education.   Securities regulators and/or 
policymakers, as applicable, should consider promoting financial and investor education 
initiatives relating to sustainability, or, where applicable, enhance existing sustainability-
related education initiatives. 
 
Financial education (which would include education for industry participants) and investor 
education can play significant roles in protecting investors from greenwashing, promoting 
awareness of sustainability-related risks, and encouraging the sound and continued growth of 
sustainability-related asset management products.  In addition, financial and investor education 
initiatives can complement the regulatory developments discussed in Recommendations 1, 2 
and 4, including by fostering a greater understanding of the benefits and risk profiles of 
sustainability-related products relative to other products. 
 
Securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, are well -positioned to promote 
financial and investor education initiatives relating to sustainability due to their vast knowledge 
and their key role in capital markets. 
 
Financial and investor education initiatives may include promoting sustainability -related risk 
awareness and improving investor comprehension about, and enhancing transparency of 
sustainability-related products, which would improve comparability a nd informed decision -
making as well as prevent greenwashing. In emerging markets, such initiatives may also 
promote the importance of sustainable finance and expand the market for sustainability-related 
products.  
 
Financial education initiatives may also address the professional and licensing obligations of 
industry participants, including financial advisors, to ensure that industry participants have the 
necessary knowledge and skills to provide advice and services relating to sustainable finance. 
 
Financial and investor education initiatives could include tools, methodologies, guidelines and 
orientations that focus on retail investors as well as the larger public. These initiatives should 
seek to overcome barriers to access, mainly using the internet and, where applicable, could 
include partnerships with other institutions. 
  

=== PAGE 74 ===
 
71 
 
Annex 1: Glossary 
 
Alliance of Sustainability 
Reporting Organisations 
A group made of the leading standard setters (Carbon Disclosure Project, 
Climate Disclosure Standards Board, IIRC, GRI and SASB) that is also known 
as the “group of five” 
ESG or Sustainability Environmental (including climate-related), social and governance 
Enterprise Value  Defined in the Prototype climate -related financial disclosure standard 
published by the  Alliance of Sustainability Reporting Organisations  in 
December 2020 as” […] market capitalisation (shareholder value) plus the 
market value of net debt. It is determined by capital market participants, based 
on their estimation, spanning the short-, medium, and long-term, of the present 
value of expected cash flows. Essential inputs in determining enterprise value 
include corporate reporting in financial statements and in sustainability-related 
financial disclosures” 
GRI Global Reporting Initiative 
Green Funds Funds which have environmental -related investment objectives or 
characteristics 
Greenwashing The practice by asset managers of misrepresenting their own sustainability -
related practices or the sustainability -related features of their investment 
products 
IFRS Foundation  International Financial Reporting Standards Foundation 
IIRC International Integrated Reporting Council 
ISSB International Sustainability Standards Board 
Net zero emissions The balance between the amount of greenhouse gas produced and the amount 
removed from the atmosphere 
NGFS Network for Greening the Financial System 
Prototype The prototype climate-related financial disclosure standard developed by the 
Alliance of Sustainability Reporting Organisations 
RTS Regulatory Technical Standards under the SFDR 
UN SDGs  United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
Science-Based Targets A set of goals developed by a business to provide it with a clearly defined pathway to 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions in line with the scale of reductions required to meet 
the goals of the Paris Agreement, which are to limit global warming to well below 
2°C above pre-industrial levels and pursue efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C 
Sustainability-related 
products 
Investment products, in cluding funds, which have sustainability -related 
investment objectives or characteristics 
SFDR Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 
November 2019 on sustainability‐related disclosures in the financial services sect or, 
commonly referred to as the Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation  
TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
PRI Principles for Responsible Investment 

=== PAGE 75 ===
 
72 
 
Annex 2: WS2 Consultation Report Feedback 
 
Feedback was submitted by the following three (3) individuals and forty-two (42) organisations to the 
Consultation Report. 
 
Individuals 
1. Ertan Kucukyalcin  
2. Onimaru  
3. Robin Whitecross 
 
Organisations 
1. AFG – French Asset Management Association 
2. AIMA 
3. AKFI: Actionable Knowledge Foundational Institute 
4. Asia Securities Industry & Financial Markets Association (ASIFMA) 
5. Asset Management Group of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association’s 
(SIFMA AMG) 
6. Association of Independent Wealth Managers of Singapore 
7. Association of the Luxembourg Fund Industry 
8. BlackRock 
9. BNP Paribas Asset Management 
10. Bundesverband Alternative Investments e.V. (BAI) 
11. BVI 
12. Capital Markets Authority - Kuwait      
13. CDP 
14. Chartered Accountants Australia & New Zealand and CPA Australia (Joint Feedback) 
15. Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) Institute 
16. EFAMA 
17. Ernst and Young 
18. Eurosif 
19. Groupama Asset Management 
20. Hong Kong Investment Funds Association (HK IFA) and Hong Kong Green Finance 
Association 
21. ICI Global 
22. IHS Markit 
23. International Capital Market Association 
24. Invesco 
25. Investment Association Member 
26. Investment Management Association of Singapore 
27. Japan Securities Dealers Association (JSDA) 
28. Managed Funds Association 
29. Morningstar 
30. MSCI ESG Research LLC 
31. Portfolio Management Association of Canada (PMAC) 
32. Progressive Working Group for Responsible Investment 
33. REIT Association of Singapore (REITAS) 
34. SCA UAE 
35. Schroders 
36. SEC Thailand 
37. State Street Global Advisors 

=== PAGE 76 ===
 
73 
 
38. Superintendency of the Securities Market of Panama 
39. The Investment Funds Institute of Canada (IFIC) 
40. The Investment Trusts Association, Japan 
41. U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
42. UN PRI 
 
The IOSCO Board is grateful for the responses and took them into consideration when preparing this 
final report. The rest of this section summarises the replies received on the consultation questions. 
Overall, respondents were supportive of the IOSCO’s work and were broadly in agreement with the 
proposed recommendations set out in the Consultation Report.  
Question 1: Will the recommendations outlined below sufficiently improve sustainability -related 
practices, policies, procedures and disclosure in the ass et management industry and address the 
issue of greenwashing? Are there other areas of sustainability -related practices, policies, 
procedures and disclosure in the asset management industry not mentioned in this consultation 
report that should be addressed as separate recommendations? 
Most of the respondents were supportive of the proposed recommendations as a solid foundation for the 
development of sustainability-related disclosure standards. 
 
Many respondents noted that asset managers need to procure and process ESG data that is relevant, 
comparable and decision useful as part of the investment management process in order to evaluate and 
monitor companies’ ESG risks, progress and performance. These respondents therefore pointed to the 
need to have accurate, consistent and comparable disclosures by corporate issuers and third -party data 
providers.  
 
Some respondents specifically urged the IOSCO to promote consistency in sustainability-related 
requirements, which would help investors understand and be able to compare sustainability -related 
products. 
 
In addition, some respondents noted that product disclosure rules should be designed in such a way as to 
accommodate the breadth of investment practices that investment managers pursue rather than assume 
that disclosure rules from the context of long -only equities investing are broadly applicable across the 
investment universe. 
 
A number of respondents recommended that regulators acknowledge the evolving nature of sustainability 
metrics as they integrate product-level sustainability disclosure into existing regulatory requirements.  
Question 2: The key areas identified are based on the key pillars of the TCFD Framework. Do you 
agree with this approach? 
Most of the respondents supported the alignment with the four pillars of the TCFD Framework and 
disclosure around these pillars. 
 
Some respondents mentioned that reporting frameworks beyond climate -change should also be looked 
at.   
Question 3: Should the scope of this recommendation cover all asset managers or be limited to only 
those asset managers that take sustainability-related risks and opportunities into consideration in 
their investment process? 
There was a general consensus among respondents that Recommendations 1 should cover all asset 
managers.  However, recognising  that there may be managers for whom sustainability-related risks and 
opportunities are less relevant, some respondents suggested that regulat ors provide an option for such 
managers to make an explicit statement where sustainability-related risks and opportunities are not taken 
into consideration.   
 

=== PAGE 77 ===
 
74 
 
Some respondents also referred to the principle of proportionality and mentioned that while the rules 
should be applicable to all asset managers, there should be a distinction in application between large and 
small asset managers.  
Question 4: Should securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, consider setting out 
different disclosure requirements for products with sustainability-related investment objectives as 
compared to products that promote sustainability -related characteristics? If so, for which of the 
different areas of disclosure listed above should the requirements vary, and how should they vary? 
In addition, if so, should securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, consider 
specifying thresholds or other criteria for determining whether a product has sustainability -
related investment objectives as compared to sust ainability-related characteristics, and what 
should those thresholds or criteria be? 
Some of the respondents noted that the distinction between the two categories is not always clear and 
argued that, in the interests of market integrity and consumer protection, the right approach would be to 
introduce basic or high-level disclosure requirements for all sustainability-related products, which would 
enable comparability.  
 
Some respondents noted that standardised information for investors that is relevant, clear and easy to 
comprehend would help investors compare investment objectives and strategies across  all types of 
products, not just sustainability-related products. 
Question 5: Should naming parameters permit the product name to reference sustainability only 
if the investment objectives refer to sustainability? 
Most of the respondents agreed that product naming should reflect the investment objectives of the 
product such that if the product’s investment objectives do not reference sustainability, the name should 
not. 
 
Several respondents noted that there are no globally agreed upon definitions of sustainability and that 
there is therefore a need for harmonisation of common sustainability-related terminology, along with 
improved transparency and common understanding in order for naming conventions to be meaningful 
and comparable, which would help prevent greenwashing.   
Question 6: Should a product need to have an ESG, SR I or similar label in order to be marketed 
as a sustainability-related product? 
The majority of the respondents agreed that a label should not be needed for a product to be marketed as 
sustainability- related.  
 
Some of the respondents noted that having a sustainability label in order to market a product does not 
necessarily address the issue of greenwashing and may cause investor misunderstanding of a product’s 
actual characteristics. 
Question 7: Do you agree with the specified areas of investment strategies disclosure? 
Most of the respondents agreed with the specified areas of investment strategies disclosure.  
 
Some respondents noted however that the areas of disclosure would need to be applicable and 
proportionate to the weight that sustainability is given in an investment strategy.  
Question 8: Should the disclosures address how past proxy voting and shareholder engagement 
records align with the investment objectives or characteristics of a sustainability-related product? 
Most of the respondents agreed that disclosures should address past proxy voting and/shareholder 
engagement records.  
 
Some respondents noted that stewardship and engagement activities are often done, or can be done, at 
the asset manager le vel and a few stakeholders believe that such disclosure should be done at the firm 
level. 
 
However, others believe that, to the extent that a product specifically refers to proxy voting or shareholder 
engagement as part of its investment objective or strategies or where a product makes specific 

=== PAGE 78 ===
 
75 
 
sustainability-related claims, disclosure should be made at the product level, with one stakeholder noting 
that the reporting should speak to the attainment of specific goals at the product level. 
Question 9: S hould securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, also address the 
format and presentation of marketing materials and website disclosure for sustainability- related 
products? 
Around half of the respondents were supportive of minimum standards or guidelines for the format and 
presentation of marketing materials and website disclosure for sustainability-related products.   
 
Some of those respondents were in favour of standardising format and presentation for retail investment 
products. Others supported a standardised format for websites only but not marketing materials because 
they believe that asset managers should have discretion about the presentation of marketing and 
promotional materials.  
 
However, other respondents believe that content is more important than format, the format should be 
flexible, and the focus of requirements and guidance should be on content. 
Question 10: Should securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, encourage the use of 
specific metrics or k ey performance indicators (KPIs) to assess, measure and monitor the 
sustainability-related product’s compliance with its investment objectives and/or characteristics? 
Should these metrics be subject to self-selection, or should there be a standardised approach? 
The majority of respondents agreed with encouraging the use of metrics or KPIs to assess, measure and 
monitor the sustainability-related product’s compliance with its investment objectives.   
 
Some respondents believe that these should be standardised rather than subject to self -selection.  For 
example, suggestions were made by some respondents to start with a common baseline of a narrow set 
of metrics and then expand as corporate-level metrics improve, with one stakeholder adding that product 
providers could then supplement with additional metrics that are relevant to a specific product. 
 
Other stakeholders believe that a one-size-fits-all prescriptive approach for the use of metrics and KPIs 
is not appropriate  given the wide range and diversity of investment objectives, underlying assets and 
investor preferences, and stated the selection of indicators and KPIs should remain at the discretion of 
asset managers.  
Question 11: Should periodic reporting include bot h quantitative and qualitative information 
about whether a sustainability -related product is meeting its sustainability -related investment 
objectives and/or characteristics? 
There was general agreement that both quantitative and qualitative information should be provided. 
 
Most of the respondents noted that quantitative information provides for comparability of information 
while qualitative information is helpful and is particularly needed where quantitative information is not 
available.  
 
Some respondents indicated that an appropriate balance is needed to prevent information over-load.   
Question 12: Do you agree that securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, should 
encourage industry participants to coalesce around a set of consistent sustainability-related terms? 
There was general agreement that consistent sustainability terms are needed.  
 
Some respondents stressed that this work needs to be done at a more global level above national 
regulators or policymakers to avoid market fragmentation and confusion.  A few respondents noted that 
this work should be done by industry, with regulators/policymakers endorsing or evaluating them. 
 
Notably, some respondents identified a specific role for the IOSCO in developing common definitions 
including having an IOSCO-backed industry fora or a stakeholder group take on this work.  

=== PAGE 79 ===
 
76 
 
 
Question 13: Are there any sets of standardi sed sustainability-related terms being developed by 
international organi sations that should be considered by securities regulators and/or 
policymakers, as applicable? 
Respondents highlighted various definitions and glossaries developed for reporting standards including 
PRI, TCFD, GRI, Global Sustainable Investment Alliance , SASB, International Finance Corporation, 
SFDR and the Taxonomy Regulation.  
 
It was also suggested that the sustainability standards being developed at the IFRS ISSB could play a 
role. 
 
Some respondents noted that the existing taxonomies are focused on economic activities rather than 
investment approaches the latter of which would be more helpful to investors.  
Question 14: Do you agree that securities regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable, should 
promote financial and investor education initiatives relating to sustainability, or, where applicable, 
enhance existing sustainability-related financial and investor education initiatives? 
There was general support for the promotion of investor and financial education initiatives.  However, 
some respondents cautioned against such initiatives advocating for the adoption of sustainability-related 
products. 
 
Some respondents noted that the initiatives should cover both retail investors as well as financial industry 
participants while others noted that education can also be provided by professional bodies, not just 
regulators.  
Question 15: Are there any specific sustainability -related financial and investor education 
initiatives not mentioned in this consultation report that could be considered by securities 
regulators and/or policymakers, as applicable? 
The existing initiatives cited by respondents included: 
• European Financial Reporting Advisory Group’s sustainability reporting standards; 
• the development of quizzes, apps and games made by students for students, which was 
financed by the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier Luxembourg; 
• International Capital Market Association Education’s introductory course on green, social and 
sustainability bonds; 
• the UN PRI Academy; 
• the Canadian Securities Administrators’ work in recruiting, training and retaining 
knowledgeable regulatory staff; and 
• the UK’s Personal Investment Management & Financial Advice Association ESG Academy’s 
library of ESG content, which is designed to equip financial advisers with the information that 
they need about ESG investments.  