
===== PAGE 1 =====
BitMEX Bitcoin Derivatives:
Price Discovery, Informational Eﬃciency
and Hedging Eﬀectiveness⋆
Carol Alexandera,b, Jaehyuk Choic, Heungju Parkd, Sungbin Sohnc,∗
aUniversity of Sussex Business School, Falmer, Brighton, United Kingdom
bPeking University HSBC Business School, Boars Hill, Oxford, United Kingdom
cPeking University HSBC Business School, Nanshan, Shenzhen, China
dSungkyunkwan University SKK Business School, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea
Abstract
BitMEX is the largest unregulated bitcoin derivatives exchange, listing contracts suitable for leverage trading
and hedging. Using minute-by-minute data, we examine its price discovery and hedging eﬀectiveness. We
ﬁnd that BitMEX derivatives lead prices on major bitcoin spot exchanges. Bid-ask spreads, inter-exchange
spreads and relative trading volumes are important determinants of price discovery. Further analysis shows
that BitMEX derivatives have positive net spillover eﬀects, are informationally more eﬃcient than bitcoin
spot prices, and serve as eﬀective hedges against spot price volatility. Our evidence suggests that regulators
prioritise investigation of the legitimacy of BitMEX and its contracts.
Keywords:
bitcoin, BitMEX, market eﬃciency, price discovery, spillover
JEL: G14
⋆This paper was presented at the 3rd KAFE–JAFEE International Conference on Financial Engineering in Busan, Korea.
The authors thank Robert Webb (editor), Doojin Ryu (conference co-organizer) and other participants at the conference. The
authors are grateful to Dr. Kibeom Seong for sharing proprietary data for the earlier version of this paper.
∗Corresponding author Tel: +86-755-2603-5324, Address: 748 PHBS University Town, Nanshan, Shenzhen 518055, China
Email address: sungbin.sohn@phbs.pku.edu.cn (Sungbin Sohn)
Preprint submitted to Journal of Futures Markets
August 1, 2019

===== PAGE 2 =====
1. Introduction
Bitcoin was the ﬁrst digital currency to operate through a peer-to-peer network without a central author-
ity (Nakamoto, 2008).
Since inception over ten years ago it has become actively traded through both
decentralised and centralised exchanges. Decentralised exchanges are, in eﬀect, smart contract-based limit
order books run without central authority, where the change of ownership is made directly between the coun-
5
terparties’ wallets and is recorded on a publicly available blockchain. Although they may be an intriguing
research subject in the future, decentralised exchanges are still in their infancy. In this paper, therefore, we
only investigate the microstructure of bitcoin on centralised exchanges (CEX). Trading activity is still highly
anonymous and diﬃcult to trace on a CEX because only cryptoasset transfers to and from the exchange’s
hot wallet are recorded on the blockchain, unless the exchange is regulated otherwise. A very large number
10
of CEXs have started operating during the last few years and several of them trade bitcoin derivatives con-
tracts such as swaps, futures and options. Since they provide an application programming interface (API)
in the hope of attracting automated high-frequency traders, trade-level data may be freely collected using
this API. Hence there is a plethora of data on CEX markets and academic research on the microstructure
of bitcoin markets has become proliﬁc.
15
Price discovery is one of the most important research questions. As Baur and Dimpﬂ(2019) point out,
two properties of bitcoin – the absence of a commonly-accepted valuation model and the trading of the same
asset in numerous venues – not only make this question particularly challenging but also make empirical
evidence more important. The launch of bitcoin futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) and
the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) in December 2017 triggered much academic discussion on
20
the role of futures in bitcoin price discovery. Hale et al. (2018) argues that the bitcoin price collapse after
these futures launched is not a coincidence – similar patterns have been observed in other asset classes.
This argument implies a leader role for those futures contracts in bitcoin spot price discovery. However,
using the accumulated price data from both futures exchanges, Corbet et al. (2018) and Baur and Dimpﬂ
(2019) independently report that the futures markets neither exercise a price leadership nor serve as an
25
eﬀective hedge against spot market, possibly due to low trading volume in futures contracts compared with
the spot. Yet, this is contrary to general ﬁndings in mature futures markets of other asset classes, where
futures markets play a dominant role in price discovery (Cabrera et al., 2009; Rosenberg and Traub, 2009;
Bohl et al., 2011; Hauptﬂeisch et al., 2016). Moreover, using much higher frequency data and a longer time
span than previous studies, a recent paper by Alexander and Heck (2019) has demonstrated a relatively high
30
role of both CBOE and CME futures. In fact, after the CBOE contract was withdrawn, the CME futures
started to play a particularly strong price discovery role, particularly on expiry dates or around price jumps.
Market eﬃciency is another active area of research. Some conclude that, although not eﬃcient at ﬁrst,
2

===== PAGE 3 =====
the bitcoin market is now highly eﬃcient (Urquhart, 2016; Bariviera, 2017; Vidal-Tom´as and Iba˜nez, 2018;
Tiwari et al., 2018; Sensoy, 2019). However, this conclusion is not unanimous as the methods, data source,
35
and observation periods vary considerably. For example, a recent study that uses diﬀerent eﬃciency indices
argues that the bitcoin market was ineﬃcient even until 2018 (Jiang et al., 2018). For a comprehensive
review of the bitcoin eﬃciency literature to date, see Bundi and Wildi (2019). Note that some research on
eﬃciency has been extended to cryptocurrencies beyond bitcoin (Brauneis and Mestel, 2018; Wei, 2018).
We make a novel contribution to both strands of the bitcoin literature by examining the bitcoin deriva-
40
tives traded on BitMEX.1 This is one of the largest bitcoin exchanges by trading volume, as of April 2019,
and counting all bitcoin products its volume is an order of magnitude above CME, CBOE and major spot ex-
changes. Therefore, BitMEX data should provide a comprehensive view about bitcoin market microstructure
and, in particular, a study on the price leadership between spot and derivative trades. BitMEX launched
their derivatives contracts before the CME and CBOE but they have many diﬀerent features which aim
45
to attract small but crypto-focused traders than mainstream ﬁnancial institutions: 1 USD contract size, no
regulation, bitcoin-based contract design, minimal margins, and much lower trading costs. Following Admati
and Pﬂeiderer (1988) we know that all these features should attract the participation of informed traders.
While the exchange had been known among cryptocurrency insiders since its launch in 2014, the importance
of BitMEX has only recently attracted the attention of regulators, who are concerned about the potential
50
for market manipulation.2 Our paper aims to inform both traders and regulators about the microstructure
of BitMEX, and its crucial role in the crypto asset ecosystem.
To learn more about bitcoin market microstructure we (trivially) conﬁrm the cointegration between
prices on the BitMEX perpetual swap, a synthetic spot similar to futures, and three major spot exchanges
(Bitstamp, Coinbase and Kraken) as a pre-requisite for estimating a four-dimensional vector error correction
55
model (VECM) which provides the foundation of our price discovery measures. We examine the extent to
which each exchange contributes to the common eﬃcient price, measured by the modiﬁed information shares
(MIS) of Lien and Shrestha (2009) and the component shares (CS) of Gonzalo and Granger (1995). We also
measure the extent to which innovations in one exchange are transmitted to the others, using the gross and
net spillover eﬀects of Pesaran and Shin (1998) and Diebold and Yilmaz (2012). Moreover, we investigate
60
the extent to which the current return is associated with the past information as measured by the returns
autocorrelation and variance ratio (Comerton-Forde and Putni¸nˇs, 2015).
We ﬁnd that, among the four markets studied, the BitMEX perpetual swap takes almost half of both
1https://www.bitmex.com. BitMEX stands for Bitcoin Mercantile Exchange.
2See
Twomey
and
Mann
(2019)
and
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-07-19/
u-s-regulator-probing-crypto-exchange-bitmex-over-client-trades.
3

===== PAGE 4 =====
the MIS and the CS. This very dominant price discovery role is stable and robust throughout the sample
period. This ﬁnding indicates that the speed with which new information is incorporated into the bitcoin
65
price is more rapid in BitMEX than in these other exchanges, i.e. the BitMEX perpetual swap plays the
price leadership role. In addition, we document that the strength of price discovery in BitMEX is positively
(negatively) associated with the relative bid-ask spread (trading volume) of the spot markets, consistent
with ﬁndings in equity derivatives markets (Chakravarty et al., 2004; Chen and Chung, 2012). We also ﬁnd
that the magnitude of price spreads between exchanges also aﬀects the role of BitMEX in price discovery.
70
Moreover, the eﬀect of inter-exchange spreads depends on whether the market is bull or bear mode. Further
analysis shows that BitMEX has signiﬁcantly positive net spillover eﬀects, meaning that innovations in
BitMEX have a disproportionately larger inﬂuence on the other three markets.
These strong price discovery and spillover eﬀects from BitMEX derivatives suggest higher informational
eﬃciency and hedge eﬀectiveness. We indeed ﬁnd much supporting evidence for this. When measured by
75
autocorrelation and variance ratio, BitMEX is informationally more eﬃcient than all three spot exchanges
– even more eﬃcient than Coinbase, the most eﬃcient one among the three. Finally, we show that BitMEX
derivatives serve as an eﬀective hedge against spot market with the out-of-sample hedging eﬀectiveness
between 0.9642 (for the naive hedge of the Kraken price) and 0.9939 (for the minimum variance hedge of
Coinbase). These ﬁndings are in complete contrast to the conclusions of Corbet et al. (2018) and Baur and
80
Dimpﬂ(2019), who use the CME and CBOE bitcoin futures as the hedging contract.
The remainder of this paper is organised as follows. Section 2 discuses the characteristics of BitMEX
products. Section 3 describes the data and conﬁrms that, of all derivatives contracts traded in BitMEX,
the perpetual swap is the most representative. In Section 4, we investigate several market microstructure
properties of BitMEX and compare them with those in major spot exchanges, using high frequency data
85
from July 01, 2016 to January 03, 2019. We also examine the hedging eﬀectiveness relative to the three main
bitcoin spot exchanges. Finally, Section 5 concludes.
2. Exchange and Contracts
Here we describe BitMEX and its products, focussing on its ﬂagship contract – the perpetual swap – and
compare its characteristics with the bitcoin futures traded on the CME.
90
BitMEX is an online cryptocurrency derivatives exchange founded in 2014. It is an unregulated exchange
with no ﬁat currency involvement. Although it operates in Hong Kong, BitMEX is wholly owned by an
entity incorporated in the Republic of Seychelles, a well-known tax shelter.
Therefore, BitMEX is not
subject to any futures regulatory bodies such as the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) in
the Unites States or the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) in Hong Kong. In addition, ﬁat currency
95
4

===== PAGE 5 =====
is not involved in BitMEX: the margin and settlement are paid only in bitcoin. As a consequence, there are
no know-your-client (KYC) or anti-money laundering (AML) procedures during account opening, which is
typically enforced by the partner banks for other, ﬁat-based crypto exchanges. Clients only need an e-mail
account and bitcoins to trade on BitMEX. This lack of regulation is an obstacle for some clients such as
large ﬁnancial institutions with strong compliance and those in certain jurisdictions.3 Nevertheless, these
100
features attract a wide retail client base to BitMEX. It is the alternative trading venue of choice for those
without access to well-functioning spot exchanges, or indeed those wishing to avoid KYC or other checks on
identity. It is possible that many Chinese became BitMEX clients after the Chinese authorities closed local
cryptocurrency exchanges in September 2017.
Although the CME (and the – now defunct – CBOE) bitcoin futures have a contract size denominated
105
in bitcoin (XBT), the contracts are managed entirely in USD.4 By contrast, BitMEX uses XBT as its base
currency. As a result, the proﬁt and loss of BitMEX products (i.e. ﬁxed-maturity futures and the perpetual
swap) depends on the inverse of XBT/USD. That is, a short (long) position on bitcoin is eﬀectively a
long (short) position on USD/XBT. Consequently, the contract size is measured in USD not XBT.5 This
feature may or may not attract clients, depending on which currency is preferred. For traditional ﬁnancial
110
institutions trading various asset classes, the bitcoin-based system of BitMEX is perhaps another deterrent
– they prefer ﬁat currency for accounting purposes and fungiblility. Hence, the CME contracts are better
suited to them. But the XBT base-currency feature of BitMEX is ideal for crypto-based traders who need
bitcoins for their daily business operations. Such traders include, for example, miners who have amassed a
3In
January
2019,
BitMEX
reportedly
started
refusing
and
closing
client
accounts
based
in
US
and
Quebec,
Canada,
as
requested
by
regulators
in
these
regions.
However,
the
determination
of
client
jurisdiction
based
on an IP address can be extremely diﬃcult.
See https://www.scmp.com/business/money/wealth/article/2182043/
hong-kong-based-digital-currency-exchange-bitmex-ditches.
4We use XBT for bitcoin’s currency code, following the CBOE and BitMEX. This abbreviation comes from the International
Standards Organization that maintains a list of internationally recognized currencies. In time, it may replace the abbreviation
BTC entirely.
5We further illustrate the diﬀerence with an example. Suppose a trader holds ten bitcoins and hedges the market value by
entering into a short futures position. Assume that the bitcoin price changes from 5,000 USD to 4,000 USD during the period
of hedge. If she uses CME, she would enter into a short futures of 10 XBT, and the proﬁt from the position is
(5, 000 −4, 000) × 10 = 10, 000 USD.
The resulting portfolio, consisting of 10 bitcoins and 10,000 USD, has the unchanged value of 50,000 USD. If she uses BitMEX
instead, she would create a short position worth of 50,000 USD, and the proﬁt from the position is

1
4, 000 −
1
5, 000

× 50, 000 = 2.5 XBT
The resulting position, 12.5 bitcoins, also has 50,000 USD value.
5

===== PAGE 6 =====
large XBT balance, blockchain-related start-ups who have raised capital by initial coin oﬀerings (ICO), and
115
hedge funds trading cryptocurrencies. These players might be considered as more informed about bitcoin
markets than the mainstream ﬁnancial institutions who prefer trading on the CME, although their size may
be smaller.
The BitMEX margin requirement is just 1%, allowing a leverage ratio of 100, whereas the CME requires
37% and the requirement can be even higher depending on brokerage. For example, TD Ameritrade requires
120
a margin 1.5 times higher than the exchange margin. Interactive Brokers requires a ﬁxed 40,000 USD for
the short position on one bitcoin.
Moreover, trading costs on BitMEX are low. The market takers pay a 7.5 basis point fee, but market
makers receive a 2.5 basis point rebate when a trade is executed. Along with the availability of an API,
the rebate scheme is a strong incentive for crypto-based high-frequency hedge funds for automated market
125
making or statistical arbitrage. To the best of our knowledge, no other major bitcoin derivatives exchange,
CME and CBOE included, oﬀers such a rebate scheme.
There are several further properties which make BitMEX contracts more accessible to investors than
the CME bitcoin futures. The contract unit of one USD in BitMEX is aﬀordable for retail traders. This
is signiﬁcantly less than the contract units of 5 bitcoins in CME (or 1 bitcoin for the CBOE, before the
130
contracts were withdrawn). The tic increment is 0.5 USD on BitMEX compared to 5 USD on CME. And
BitMEX trading occurs 24/7, similar to spot exchanges, whereas trading on the CME is from Sunday to
Friday, 5pm to 4pm Chicago time.
Last, but most importantly, BitMEX’s unique contract type called the perpetual swap has made key
contributions to the popularity of BitMEX. Since its founding in 2014, BitMEX oﬀered various products
135
such as traditional ﬁxed-maturity futures on XBT/USD (the XBT series).6 However, it was not until the
introduction of the XBT/USD perpetual swap in May 2016 that BitMEX gained meaningful trade volume.
The perpetual swap has now become by far the most traded product on BitMEX. It can be understood as
a cross-currency (i.e. ﬁxed for ﬂoating) swap between XBT and USD, where the XBT notional amount is
rebalanced against a ﬁxed USD notional amount (i.e. the contract size) according as the market changes.
140
7 During the swap, both sides pay interest on the principal in the currency they receive. As in a currency
6BitMEX used to also oﬀer traditional ﬁxed-maturity futures on BTC/JPY (the XBJ series) and BTC/USD quanto futures
(the XBU series), but these series are no longer oﬀered.
7That is, the up-front principal exchange is x1 per dollar, where x1 is the XBT/USD rate at the start of the swap. If the
notional is 10, 000 USD then party A pays 10, 000 USD to party B and receives 10, 000/x1 bitcoin from party B. On exiting the
contract party B returns 10,000 USD to party A and receives 10, 000/x2 bitcoin from party A where x2 is the XBT/USD rate
when the contract is closed. This makes the product, eﬀectively, a synthetic spot bitcoin featured with long and short positions.
6

===== PAGE 7 =====
swap, only the interest diﬀerence, or funding in BitMEX terms, is exchanged between the long and short
position holders. Given there is no interest rate in bitcoin, the funding rate is computed using a formula
which is designed to prevent divergence between the swap rate and the reference bitcoin spot price index in
BitMEX (.BXBT).8 Unlike a standard currency swap, however, there is no ﬁxed maturity. The perpetual
145
swap may be preferred because there is no need for a roll-over trade – which can be risky due to bitcoin’s
high volatility. Following the success of the BitMEX perpetual swap the contract design has been adopted
by several followers, such as the OKEx exchange.9 Table 1 summarises the diﬀerences between the BitMEX
perpetual swap and the ﬁxed maturity futures on BitMEX, CME, and CBOE.
Taken together, all these characteristics contribute to large trading volumes and a broad investor base.
150
Admati and Pﬂeiderer (1988) show, theoretically and under reasonable assumptions, that the introduction of
more informed traders generally increases the concentration of trading by liquidity traders, further attracting
more informed traders. One implication of this theory is that, in a market with higher trading volume,
more information creation occurs and prices are more eﬃcient. Based on this theoretical implication, we
hypothesise that conditions on BitMEX lead to fast price discovery and informationally eﬃcient prices, and
155
we test these hypotheses formally in Section 4.
(Insert Table 1 here)
3. Data
In this section, we describe the data and justify several choices we have made for the analysis to come. We
obtained trade-level XBT/USD data from two sources: the BitMEX archive ([dataset] BitMEX, 2019) for the
160
trades and the best bid-ask prices for perpetual swaps and traditional futures; and bitcoincharts.com ([dataset]
Bitcoincharts, 2019) for the trades on three spot exchanges, Bitstamp, Coinbase, and Kraken.10 The data
include time-stamp, price, and traded bitcoin amount for each trade. We use the trade-level data to create
a price time series and trade volume is aggregated minute-by-minute, or at other required frequencies. Ad-
ditionally, we use the averaged bid-ask spread of the three spot exchanges from bitcoinity.org ([dataset]
165
Bitcoinity, 2019).
We select the sample period from July 1, 2016 to January 3, 2019. The start date is chosen so to exclude
the period immediately after the launch of the BitMEX perpetual swap in May 2016. In several analysis, we
8For the detailed contract speciﬁcation we refer to the BitMEX website: https://www.bitmex.com/app/contract/XBTUSD.
9https://medium.com/okex-blog/okex-launched-perpetual-swap-227eec2c9f29
10[dataset] Bitcoincharts (2019) has been widely used in previous studies; see Eross et al. (2019) and Gandal et al. (2018) for
example. We verify the data integrity by comparing the aggregated daily trade volume to that available from another on-line
source, [dataset] Bitcoinity (2019).
7

===== PAGE 8 =====
divide the period into two sub-periods: before and after December 17, 2017 when the bitcoin price reached
its peak near USD 20,000. This partition of the sample is intended to detect any structural break between
170
bull and bear markets. The break point also coincides with the launch of the bitcoin futures on CBOE and
CME.
The three spot exchanges (Bitstamp, Coinbase, and Kraken) represent the bitcoin spot markets well
because they are consistently ranked within top ﬁve by XBT/USD trading volume. We exclude Bitﬁnex
although its trading volume is higher than the three exchanges. A signiﬁcant portion of bitcoin trade in
175
Bitﬁnex is reportedly made against Tether (USDT), a cryptocurrency whose value is supposed to be in
parity with USD because it is issued on USD collateral. Moreover, Bitﬁnex is closely tied with the issuer of
Tether and various legal and accounting issues has been raised recently (Griﬃn and Shams, 2018). Therefore,
Bitﬁnex is diﬃcult to be considered as a genuine spot exchange. With Bitﬁnex excluded, Bitstamp, Coinbase,
and Kraken account for 21.0%, 25.2%, and 9.7% of the total XBT/USD spot trading volume, respectively,
180
during the sample period ([dataset] Bitcoinity, 2019). The three exchanges are particularly suitable for the
analysis of spot-derivative relationship because they constitute the reference spot price index in BitMEX
with equal weight.
Figure 1 plots the daily characteristics of the bitcoin spot and perpetual swap prices. The top-left panel
shows that prices on the four exchanges clearly share a common stochastic trend, implying a cointegration
185
relationship. The returns and volatilities of the four markets also coincide. The bottom-right panel depicts
the log basis of the three spot exchanges, i.e. the log of the BitMEX price minus the log of the spot exchange
price.
(Insert Figure 1 here)
Table 2 reports the average trading volume by exchanges and trade types in the six month sub-periods
190
as well as the whole sample. In addition to the four exchanges we report the trading volume on CBOE and
CME obtained from their websites, for reference. For BitMEX, the volume from the perpetual swap and
the ﬁxed maturity futures are reported separately. Overall the trading volume grows rapidly in all trading
venues until the second half of 2018. It is noticeable that the volumes on BitMEX and CME still grow in
the last sub-period whereas the volume decrease in the rest of exchanges. To capture the changes in relative
195
volume share over the sample period better, in Figure 2 we plot the ratio of BitMEX’s perpectual swap
volume to the sum of volumes over the three spot exchanges (Bitstamp, Coinbase, and Kraken). The volume
ratio exceeds one by early 2017 and reaches 24 by August 2018.
(Insert Table 2 here)
(Insert Figure 2 here)
200
8

===== PAGE 9 =====
While both the perpetual swap and the the traditional futures are traded on BitMEX, we acknowledge the
perpetual swap as the legitimate representative of the exchange – a decision based on much larger volume
and superior price discovery.11 In the previous section, we also argued that the perpetual swap is more
attractive than the ﬁxed maturity futures because it does not require roll-over trades.
Since the following analyses are mostly based on the assumption of cointegration, we formally test whether
205
the cointegration relationship exists over the full-sample and sub-sample periods. Table 3 reports the test
results. The Engle-Granger test assesses the null hypothesis of no cointegration among the log prices of the
four exchanges. The Johansen test assesses the null hypothesis of a particular cointegration rank against
the alternative of higher ranks. Regardless of the sample periods, the test statistics and their associated
p-values conﬁrm that there exists a cointegration relationship and that the rank of the cointegrating matrix
210
is at least three, implying a single stochastic trend. The last row in each panel reports the proportion of days
in which the associated null hypothesis is rejected at the 1% signiﬁcance level when the cointegration tests
are conducted on a daily basis. Panel A shows that in the full-sample period, the null of no cointegration is
rejected in 912 trading days (99.45%) out of the total 917 trading days according to the Engle-Granger test.
The Johansen test shows that the null hypothesis of the cointegration rank being equal to three cannot be
215
rejected for more than 83.64% of the total trading days. These results do not qualitatively change in the
two sub-samples, indicating the robustness of the cointegration relationship. Based on these test results, this
paper assumes the existence of a cointegration relationship with the cointegration rank of three.
(Insert Table 3 here)
4. Empirical Analyses
220
This section investigates several market microstructure properties of BitMEX using a four-dimensional
VECM with the prices in BitMEX, Bitstamp, Coinbase and Kraken as the state variables. A bivariate
VECM is more common in the spot-derivative price discovery literature and we could also have applied such,
using the reference spot price index in BitMEX, the equally-weighted average of the three spot exchange
11Indeed, we see that the trading volume of the perpetual swap is larger than that of traditional bitcoin futures, by an order
of magnitude. We also examine the price discovery shares between the two BitMEX products –this will be detailed in Section
4.1 and the Appendix. For the analysis of the futures, we form a single time series of minute-by-minute futures prices, using
the price of the most nearby contract until there are three trading days left to maturity. After that, the next nearby contract
replaces the expiring one.
We construct the time series in this way because the prompt contract generally has the largest
trading volume and supposedly contains the most information. This method has been adopted in the literature (Booth et al.,
1999; Sohn and Zhang, 2017), and our results are robust to the speciﬁc timing of the contract replacement. Since the trading
volume of the bitcoin futures had been negligible until the end of October 2016, we start considering its price time series from
November 2016.
9

===== PAGE 10 =====
prices. However, we decided to use the raw price data from the spot exchanges because the price index may
225
not be the optimal representative of the spot bitcoin price. As will be described in following sub-sections,
the price discovery shares of the three spot exchanges are not evenly distributed. Therefore, it may over-
represent the exchange with smaller price discovery. Moreover, this four-dimensional setting enables us to
learn the inﬂuences not only between spot and derivatives markets but also among spot markets.
4.1. Modiﬁed information shares and component shares
230
In this sub-section, we examine the contribution to the price discovery by BitMEX and the other three bitcoin
spot exchanges (Bitstamp, Coinbase, and Kraken). Price discovery is the process by which new information
is incorporated into asset prices.
Given a single product traded in several markets (alternatively, given
closely related products traded in a market), the market (or product) whose price reﬂects new information
faster would be expected to play the dominant role in price discovery. Assuming a cointegration relationship
235
among the prices in consideration, Hasbrouck (1995) and Gonzalo and Granger (1995) respectively propose
the measures of price discovery: information shares (IS) and component shares (CS). Lien and Shrestha
(2009) suggest the modiﬁed information share (MIS) that overcomes some shortcomings of IS. The MIS of a
market captures the extent to which its innovation contributes to the variation in the common factor of the
cointegrated time series. The CS reﬂects each market’s relative contribution to the common factor. These
240
two measures are derived from a common cointegration relationship and have similarity, but they diﬀer in
that the MIS incorporates the correlation between price innovations of the considered markets (products)
while the CS does not. Therefore, the two measures provide complementary views of price discovery among
the markets.12
(Insert Table 4 here)
245
For a given sample period, e.g. the entire sample or on a daily basis, we use minute-by-minute log prices
to estimate a vector error correction model (VECM) and compute the MIS and the CS. Panel A of Table
4 reports the price discovery shares of the four markets for the full-sample period. We ﬁnd that BitMEX
plays the dominant price discovery role. Speciﬁcally, the average of daily MIS (CS) of BitMEX is 51.53%
(57.50%). In contrast, those of Bitstamp, Coinbase, and Kraken are limited to 18.46% (15.61%), 23.18%
250
(21.24%) and 6.81% (5.64%), respectively.
(Insert Figure 3 here)
12See Appendix for the detailed calculation procedure.
10

===== PAGE 11 =====
To examine how the price discovery shares evolve over time, the same analysis is peformed for the two
sub-periods, before (Panel B) and after (Panel C) December 2017. We also plot the daily time series of MIS
and CS for the four exchanges in Figure 3 using day-by-day VECM models. The results are smoothed to
255
remove noise. The table and the ﬁgure conﬁrm that the contribution of BitMEX to price discovery has been
stable and high, despite some ups and downs. The shares of BitMEX either increased after the structural
break (CS: 50.09% to 67.89%) or are almost unchanged (MIS: 52.25% to 50.33%) depending on the measures.
In contrast to the stable role of BitMEX, the price discovery shares of Coinbase tends to decrease over time,
while the price discovery role of Bitstamp has steadily increased.
260
Interestingly, the MIS and CS are almost identical, particularly in the earlier sub-sample, implying that
the contemporaneous correlation among innovations in the four exchanges is suﬃciently small (Baillie et al.,
2002). In the later sub-sample, however, the diﬀerences between MIS and CS is sizeable, indicating that the
exchanges become more inter-connected and their innovations are consequently more correlated.
4.2. Speed of error correction
265
Since the MIS and CS from the four exchanges should sum to one by construction, they only capture
the relative strength of price discovery. Hence, when the speed of information incorporation into the price
increases or decreases concurrently in the four exchanges, these measures cannot eﬀectively reﬂect this change.
To understand the changes in strength of price discovery comprehensively, we consider whether and to what
extent an exchange reacts to short-run deviations from a long-run equilibrium by investigating the error
270
correction coeﬃcients in the VECM. Table 5 reports the average of estimated error correction coeﬃcients
obtained from the daily estimation of the VECM and the associated Newey-West standard errors. The error
correction coeﬃcients indicate the response speed of each exchange with respect to the deviation of its price
from the price in another exchange. For example, the row of BitMEX in Panel A shows the response of the
price on BitMEX when the price diﬀerence between BitMEX and Bitstamp (Coinbase or Kraken) increases
275
by 1%.
(Insert Table 5 here)
Note that the signs of the error correction coeﬃcients are supposed to be non-positive, under this speciﬁ-
cation. As expected, all coeﬃcients are either negative or insigniﬁcant for all exchanges and sample periods,
but their magnitudes vary across the four markets and over time. In the full-sample period, it turns out
280
that the error correction occurs most strongly in Kraken, while the error correction speed is the slowest in
BitMEX. When the price diﬀerence between Kraken and BitMEX (Bitstamp or Coinbase) widens by 1%,
the price in Kraken falls by 0.1804% (0.2487% or 0.2250%) in the following minute. In contrast, when the
price diﬀerence between BitMEX and Bitstamp (Coinbase or Kraken) increases by 1%, the price in BitMEX
11

===== PAGE 12 =====
reacts very little – it subsequently drops by only 0.0357% (0.0038% or 0.0049%). This result is consistent
285
with the ﬁndings from the MIS and CS that BitMEX plays the dominant price discovery role. Intuitively,
if the price of one exchange responds strongly to the past cointegration error (i.e. the short-run deviation
from a long-run equilibrium) rather than evolving autonomously, it is likely that the exchange incorporates
information at a lower speed than others and plays a less important role in price discovery.
The sub-sample estimations indicate that the absolute strength of each market’s price discovery exhibits
290
dramatic changes over time; the response of the spot exchanges to the cointegration errors became stronger
but BitMEX does not signiﬁcantly respond to price deviation from Coinbase and Kraken in the recent
bearish sub-sample. This ﬁnding is consistent with the stronger price leadership of BitMEX as well as closer
interconnectedness among spot exchanges in the recent period.
4.3. Spillover eﬀects
295
The ﬁndings above suggest that BitMEX and the spot exchanges have become more closely inter-connected
over time. To examine the extent to which shocks in one market account for variation in other markets we
conduct the forecast error variance decomposition suggested by Pesaran and Shin (1998) and Diebold and
Yilmaz (2012) to calculate the gross and net spillover eﬀects from a given market.13 While the MIS and CS
indicate how each market reacts to the deviation from the long-run common trend, the spillover eﬀects show
300
how each market reacts to shocks in other markets.
(Insert Table 6 here)
(Insert Figure 4 here)
Table 6 presents the gross spillover eﬀects from one market to another, and the net spillover eﬀects from
a given market. The (i, j) entry in the gross spillover represents the estimated contribution to the forecast
305
error variance of market i coming from innovations of market j, while the entry in the net spillover is the
diﬀerence between the spillover from market i to all other markets and the spillover from all other markets
to market i. The spillovers are estimated for each day and the values in the table are the average of the
daily estimates.
Unsurprisingly, the majority of the forecast error variance in a market originates from its own shocks.
310
In the full-sample period the gross spillover from a market to itself ranges from 64.28% (Coinbase) to
73.16% (Kraken). The total spillover, deﬁned as the average forecast error variance attributed to other
markets rather than its own, is 32.85%. One noticeable ﬁnding is that BitMEX gives substantially more
than receives: the spillover from BitMEX to the other exchanges is 44.25%, while that to BitMEX from
13See Appendix for the detailed calculation procedure.
12

===== PAGE 13 =====
the others is 36.00%. In other words, innovations in BitMEX inﬂuence the other exchanges more than it is
315
inﬂuenced by innovations in the others, and this is reﬂected by the sizeable positive net spillover (8.25%).
In contrast, Kraken has a considerable negative net spillover (-8.58%) meaning that the inﬂuence of Kraken
on the others is disproportionate to that of others on itself. The other two exchanges are well balanced in
that the net spillovers are close to zero.
The sub-sample analyses contrast the inter-market inﬂuences during earlier and later periods. First, the
320
total spillover increases from 17.02% before the price peak in December 2017 to 55.05% afterwards. This
means that an increased fraction of the forecast error variance in one market is attributed to the shocks in
the other markets, again implying a greater connectedness between the markets. The gross spillover from
each exchange also increases signiﬁcantly. For example, the shocks in BitMEX account for only 28.79% of
the forecast error variances of the other exchanges in the earlier sub-sample, but this fraction increases to
325
65.91% in the later sub-sample. This trend of intensiﬁed interdependence is consistent with the evidence
found in Sections 4.1 and 4.2 in that each exchange is more actively incorporating information arising from
other exchanges and their innovations are more correlated.
(Insert Figure 5 here)
The averaged values in the table provide a useful and handy snapshot of the overall inﬂuence of each
330
market, but cannot show how it has evolved over time. For better understanding of its time-varying features,
Figure 4 depicts the daily net spillover from each market. In the earlier sample period the net spillovers are
close to zero for all four exchanges, which indicates that there had been little inter-market inﬂuences until
early 2017. This fact is consistent with the overall trend of the total spillover depicted in Figure 5. However,
as the total spillover eﬀects substantially increase after mid 2017, the net spillover from BitMEX has become
335
signiﬁcantly positive, while that from Kraken has become signiﬁcantly negative. The net spillovers from the
other two markets remain close to zero. If shocks in one market aﬀect the prices in other markets more than
the other way around, then the market supposedly plays more important roles in price discovery. In light of
this, the positive net spillover in BitMEX is generally consistent with its large price discovery shares.
4.4. Determinants of price discovery
340
In Section 4.1 we showed that the strength of the price discovery of BitMEX ﬂuctuates over time.
To
formally examine the determinants of time-varying price discovery shares, we run a regression of the price
discovery share (MIS and CS) of BitMEX on several market characteristics. Speciﬁcally, we control the
relative spread (RSpread; average bid-ask spread in spot exchanges divided by BitMEX spread), the relative
trading volume (RTV ; total trading volume of the spot exchanges divided by BitMEX trading volume), the
345
bitcoin log return (Ret; the change of log bitcoin prices in BitMEX), the absolute basis (Abs.Basis; absolute
13

===== PAGE 14 =====
value of average diﬀerence of log prices between BitMEX and the three spot exchanges). We also include a
dummy variable that indicates a day with a negative return (DRet<0) and its interaction with Abs.Basis.
The spot exchanges are represented by Bitstamp, Coinbase, and Kraken. All control variables except for
the dummy are standardized to have zero-mean and unit-variance for clearer economic interpretation: the
350
coeﬃcients represent the change in the dependent variable – i.e the price discovery share of the futures – per
unit standard deviation change in the control variable.
These control variables are motivated by the previous literature and plausible conjectures. First, it has
been widely documented that price discovery tend to occur primarily in the market with smaller trading
costs (Booth et al., 1999; de Jong and Donders, 1998; Hsieh et al., 2008). To test this trading cost hypothesis,
355
we control for the relative bid-ask spread and the relative trading volume. Secondly, a larger absolute basis
indicates wider deviation of prices from a long-run eﬃcient price and this price decoupling may well result
from the inﬂux of uninformed investors into spot exchanges, due to exuberance and/or irrationality, which
could potentially open a short window of arbitrage opportunity. Therefore, we conjecture that BitMEX
traders, who are supposedly more informed, could actively exploit this potential arbitrage opportunity and
360
aﬀect the price discovery strength. Thirdly, when the market is down BitMEX may play a diﬀerential price
discovery role, because short-selling is possible directly on BitMEX but not on our spot exchanges. To test
the second and third conjectures we include the absolute basis, the market return, and the negative return
indicator.
Table 7 reports the regression results.
BitMEX is stronger when the spot exchanges have relatively
365
greater bid-ask spreads and smaller trading volume, consistent with previous empirical ﬁndings that less
costly transactions and more trading are conducive to faster information incorporation (Chakravarty et al.,
2004; Chen and Chung, 2012; Ahn et al., 2019). Speciﬁcally, column (1) shows that when the relative bid-ask
spread (trading volume) of spot exchanges increases by 1 standard deviation, the MIS of BitMEX rises by
5.37% (falls by 1.87%). We also ﬁnd that the absolute value of the basis is negatively associated with the
370
price discovery of BitMEX, meaning that the larger price gap between BitMEX and other spot exchanges
lowers the price discovery role of BitMEX. To understand this ﬁnding, recall that the market whose price
tends to narrow the absolute basis has a low price discovery share because this market follows, rather than
leads, the other markets. In light of this fact, our ﬁnding is consistent with the conjecture that BitMEX
traders more actively exploit potential arbitrage opportunities when prices deviate further from a long-run
375
eﬃcient level. Interestingly, this negative relation between the price decoupling and the price discovery in
BitMEX depends on the market situation. During a market downturn this negative association signiﬁcantly
weakens. For example, column (2) shows that when the absolute basis increases by 1 standard deviation,
the MIS of BitMEX falls by 3.86% when the market is up, while it falls only by 0.29% (= −3.86% + 3.57%).
Given that the average basis is more negative (i.e. the BitMEX price is less other spot prices) during the
380
14

===== PAGE 15 =====
market downturn, the decoupling of prices when the return is negative is, presumably, due to short selling
from BitMEX. We conclude that trades on BitMEX lead the spot prices when the market is down and it is
the spot markets that correct the price decoupling.
In summary, our analysis shows that the price discovery role of BitMEX improves when transaction costs
are less and trading volume is greater than that on spot exchanges; and that short trades on BitMEX in
385
particular, which are not directly possible on the spot exchanges, contribute much to its price discovery role.
(Insert Table 7 here)
4.5. Informational eﬃciency
Large price discovery shares of BitMEX and its positive net spillover eﬀects suggest that BitMEX is infor-
mationally eﬃcient within the bitcoin ecosystem. To test this conjecture, we now compare the informational
390
eﬃciency in BitMEX with that of other bitcoin spot markets. An eﬃcient market implies no predictability of
future returns and it is therefore standard to measure market ineﬃciency by the extent to which the current
return is correlated with past returns, and/or the return data generation process diﬀers from a random walk
(Lo and MacKinlay, 1988; Hendershott and Jones, 2005; Comerton-Forde and Putni¸nˇs, 2015). Following the
literature, we use the absolute value of return autocorrelation (AC) and the deviation from one of the return
395
variance ratio (VR) as the measures of informational ineﬃciency.
Speciﬁcally, we calculate the AC of a market on a given day as follows. For each market we ﬁrst compute
several autocorrelations from the returns on a given day recorded at diﬀerent intra-day frequencies: 1-minute,
3-minute, 5-minute and 10-minute, and then calculate the average of their absolute values. Note that in a
fully informationally eﬃcient market where prices reﬂect all public and private information, returns should
400
have zero autocorrelation at every observation frequency. Therefore, a higher value of AC indicates that the
price does not instantaneously reﬂect new information; rather, it might either over- or under-react to news.
The daily VR of a market is obtained similarly. For each market, we ﬁrst calculate the variances of
returns recorded at diﬀerent intraday frequencies: 1-minute, 5-minute, 10-minute and 20-minute, and then
compute the absolute deviation of their ratios from one: |σ2
kl/(kσ2
l ) −1|, where σ2
l is the variance of returns
405
recorded at l-minute frequency. We calculate these ratio deviations using three frequency pairs: (5-minute
and 1-minute), (10-minute and 5-minute) and (20-minute and 10-minute). Finally, the VR is obtained as
the average of these three values. If a price follows a random walk process, the return variance should be
proportional to the measurement frequency. Therefore, as in the AC case, a large value of VR indicates
more deviation from a random walk process, implying some degree of return predictability.
410
(Insert Figure 6 here)
15

===== PAGE 16 =====
Figures 6 plots the daily AC and VR in the four bitcoin markets: BitMEX, Bitstamp, Coinbase, and
Kraken. Again, the time series are smoothed for clear readability. The average AC (VR) in BitMEX is
only 0.084 (0.137), while those in Bitstamp, Coinbase, and Kraken are 0.155 (0.22), 0.094 (0.158) and 0.144
(0.208), respectively. We ﬁnd that the values of AC and VR in BitMEX are almost uniformly and signiﬁcantly
415
smaller than those in other markets, implying BitMEX’s higher degree of informational eﬃciency.14 It is also
noticeable that AC and VR move closely together within each exchange, serving as robustness check to each
other. Interestingly, Coinbase has the second smallest AC and VR. The fact that the net spillover eﬀects
from Coinbase are negative on average in the same sample period shows that the informational eﬃciency
within a market and its inﬂuence on other markets are not necessarily aligned, conﬁrming the importance
420
of the comprehensive examination in this paper.
4.6. Hedging eﬀectiveness
Finally, we examine the out-of-sample hedging eﬀectiveness of the BitMEX perpetual swap. Let pi,d be
the log price in exchange i on day d, where i ∈{BitMEX, Bitstamp, Coinbase, Kraken}. Then, ∆pi,d+1 −
bid∆pBitMEX,d+1 is the return on day d + 1 of the portfolio that purchases one bitcoin spot in exchange
425
i and short sells bid bitcoins of the perpetual swap in BitMEX.15 The hedge ratio bid is set to be zero
for the unhedged position and one for a naive hedge. A utility maximisation problem with a two-period
model implies that the hedge ratio which minimises the portfolio return variance is obtained by the ratio
of spot-BitMEX return covariance to BitMEX return variance (Ederington, 1979; Park and Switzer, 1995).
Therefore, for the minimum variance hedge, bid is set to be the slope coeﬃcient from the OLS regression of
430
spot returns in exchange i on the BitMEX swap returns using the daily observations up to day d. Following
de Jong et al. (1997), we investigate the hedging eﬀectiveness in an out-of-sample setting. Speciﬁcally, we use
the earlier half of the sample (July 1, 2016 to Oct 1, 2017) for the initial estimation of the minimum variance
hedge ratio on Oct 1, 2017, and keep updating the daily hedge ratio using a moving window estimation.
Table 8 compares the standard deviations of daily portfolio returns obtained from several hedging meth-
ods. The portfolio returns are examined for the later half of the sample period. The results show that even
the naive hedge substantially reduces the exposure to the spot volatility risks. In Bitstamp, the return stan-
dard deviation for the unhedged position is reduced from 4.69% to 0.39% by taking a unit short position in
BitMEX. The minimum variance hedge further decreases the portfolio return variance. Table 8 also reports
14In an unreported analysis, we ﬁnd that the p-value of the mean diﬀerence test is smaller than 0.1%.
15The actual short selling unit in Bitmex is USD and so the return should be calculated from the inverse price, as explained
in Section 2. For comparison with previous studies based on CBOE and CME, we assume the short trade in BitMEX works
in the USD-based style of CBOE or CME. Unless the daily return is extremely large, the outcomes are similar, by the Taylor
approximation.
16

===== PAGE 17 =====
the measure for hedging eﬀectiveness (HE) suggested by de Jong et al. (1997). The measure of exchange i
is deﬁned as
HEi = 1 −σ2
p
σ2
i
,
where σ2
p is the variance of the hedge portfolio returns and σ2
i is the variance of the unhedged spot returns in
435
exchange i. The HE measure is at least as large as 0.9642 (naive hedge in Kraken) and even reaches 0.9939
for the minimum variance hedge in Bitstamp. The hedging eﬀectiveness varies across the spot exchanges
and hedging methods, but the magnitude is always large.
This ﬁnding is opposite to Corbet et al. (2018), who report that a hedge using CBOE futures does
not eﬀectively reduce the portfolio return volatility.
Their ﬁndings show that hedging increases, rather
440
than decreases, the variance of the hedge portfolio returns not only for the naive hedging but also for the
minimum variance hedging. Hence, they report the negative HE measures. But that is because the size
of those contracts is so large that position risk is high, except when hedging huge notional amounts. Our
ﬁndings about the price discovery also form a clear contrast to Corbet et al. (2018) and Baur and Dimpﬂ
(2019) who also document that bitcoin spot prices lead the bitcoin futures prices in CME and CBOE.
445
However, their results are likely to have been inﬂuenced by low trading volumes on the futures contracts
(Ad¨ammer et al., 2016).
(Insert Table 8 here)
5. Conclusion
We investigate several market microstructure properties and analyse the information ﬂows between BitMEX
450
and three major bitcoin spot exchanges (i.e. Bitstamp, Coinbase and Kraken). These exchanges are selected
from literally hundreds of possible bitcoin spot exchanges because they have the largest real trading volume
and because their prices form the reference spot price index used by BitMEX for settlement of its main
contracts. BitMEX is a dedicated crypto-only derivative exchange, which has received little attention from
bitcoin researchers until recently despite its popularity and controversy. We ﬁrst explain BitMEX’s unique
455
characteristics that appeal to traders and conﬁrm that the perpetual swap, a margined synthetic spot contract
in BitMEX, is the most representative derivative contract in BitMEX. The trading volume on the perpetual
swap greatly surpasses the volume traded on CME bitcoin futures, as well as total spot trades on other
major exchanges – so much so that we had to use a log scale in the graph!
We ﬁnd that the BitMEX perpetual swap plays a dominant price discovery role and that the relative
460
bid-ask spreads, relative trading volume and the inter-exchange spreads are important determinants of the
ﬂuctuation of its price discovery. We also ﬁnd that BitMEX has signiﬁcantly positive net spillover to the
17

===== PAGE 18 =====
other exchanges, and is informationally more eﬃcient too. Finally, we show that when the perpetual swap
is used as a hedging instrument, the price volatility risk in the spot exchanges can be reduced up to 99.39%.
Unlike the spot exchanges used in our study, BitMEX is almost entirely unregulated. One only needs
465
bitcoin and an email address to open account. Nevertheless, its unique features – and the design of the
perpetual swap contract in particular – are obviously attractive to crypto-based traders who are presumably
more informed than those trading on spot exchanges.
We conclude BitMEX is an exchange that both
investors and regulators should pay attention to. Given that derivatives in BitMEX lead the bitcoin spot
prices and serve as an eﬀective hedge against spot volatility, institutional investors should be mindful of
470
BitMEX derivatives before deciding whether to consider bitcoin as a mainstream investment asset. The US
Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted a conservative position by rejecting or postponing decisions
on applications for bitcoin exchange traded funds (ETF), citing concerns about the lack of transparency and
potential market manipulation in bitcoin exchanges. Given the substantial role and inﬂuence of the perpetual
swap in BitMEX, regulators should prioritise investigation of the legitimacy of trading on this contract and
475
on this exchange.
Data Availability Statement
The raw data that support the ﬁndings of this study have been obtained from the following public sources as of
April 2019: (a) https://public.bitmex.com ([dataset] BitMEX, 2019), (b) http://api.bitcoincharts.
com/v1/csv/ ([dataset] Bitcoincharts, 2019), (c) http://data.bitcoinity.org ([dataset] Bitcoinity, 2019),
480
and (d) the CME and CBOE websites. The resampled minute-by-minute time series of price and volume
are available from the corresponding author, Sungbin Sohn, upon reasonable request.
18

===== PAGE 19 =====
Appendix
This appendix section ﬁrst describes the procedure of obtaining the modiﬁed information share (MIS) and
the component share (CS) of a product in a market, which are respectively proposed by Lien and Shrestha
485
(2009) and Gonzalo and Granger (1995). Then, we explain how to measure the spillover eﬀects from one
market to another based on Diebold and Yilmaz (2012).
Consider K closely related products traded in diﬀerent venues, and let pt be a K × 1 vector of their
log prices. Suppose that pt has a unit root and there exists a K × (K −1) full-rank matrix β that makes
β′pt stationary. Then, pt is said to have a cointegration relationship with one stochastic common trend
(permanent component) and β′pt is called the cointegration error (transitory component). The cointegrated
time series of pt can be represented by the VECM:16
∆pt = αβ′pt−1 +
Q
X
q=1
Aq∆pt−q + ϵt,
(1)
where α is the K × (K −1) error-correction coeﬃcient matrix, indicating how prices react to the deviation
from the long-run equilibrium relationship. Its sign and magnitude represent the direction and speed of the
error correction. Q is the lag length of the model and is chosen by the Bayesian information criterion. Aq is
490
the K × K autoregressive coeﬃcient matrix, reﬂecting the eﬀects of the short-term ﬂuctuation on prices. ϵt
is the K × 1 zero-mean vector of serially uncorrelated disturbances with covariance matrix Ω.
The CS is derived from the permanent-transitory decomposition (Gonzalo and Granger, 1995) in which
the common permanent component in pt is obtained by its linear combination. Speciﬁcally, α′
⊥pt is the
permanent component in pt where the K × 1 vector α⊥is deﬁned such that α′
⊥α = 0, and the CS in the ith
product (market) is obtained as:
CSi =
α⊥,i
PK
k=1 α⊥,k
,
for i = 1, · · · , K,
which indicates the contribution of each time series to the long-run equilibrium price. A valid cointegration
system theoretically implies that α⊥,k should be positive for all k, but in an empirical analysis, negative
values are infrequently obtained. Some papers use the absolute value to avoid this economically nonsensical
495
results (Bohl et al., 2011). In this paper, we set a negative α⊥,k to zero and adjust other values so that they
sum to one. Since the negative values are infrequent and mostly close to zero, these treatments yield almost
identical results.
The MIS incorporates additional information about the covariance structure of innovations.
By the
16A constant term does not aﬀect the analysis and is omitted for notational simplicity throughout this section.
19

===== PAGE 20 =====
Granger representation theorem, Equation (1) can be expressed as the VMA(∞):
∆pt = Ψ(L)ϵt,
(2)
where Ψ(L) = P∞
q=0 ΨqLq, Ψq is the K × K moving average coeﬃcient matrix and L is the lag operator.
The integrated form of VMA(∞) is expressed as:
pt = Ψ(1)
t
X
q=1
ϵq + Ψ∗(L)ϵt,
(3)
where Ψ(1) is the sum of moving average coeﬃcients and Ψ∗(L)ϵt is a zero-mean stationary process, repre-
senting the transient eﬀect. Note that β′Ψ(1) should be zero because β′pt is stationary. Hence, assuming
that a cointegrating vector for a given pair is (1, −1)′, a K × K matrix Ψ(1) should be a vertical stack of a
1×K common row ψ. Hasbrouck (1995) interprets ψϵt as the common permanent impact of the shock at t
into the prices, and calls it the common eﬃcient price. Then, he suggests a measure of the price discovery
strength as the weight of the common factor variance. The greater proportion of the variance the innovations
in a market constitute, the stronger price discovery capability the market possesses. Formally, the IS in the
ith market is obtained as:
ISi = ([ψM]i)2
ψΩψ′
,
for i = 1, · · · , K,
where M is a lower triangular matrix of the Cholesky factorisation of Ωsuch that Ω= MM ′, and [ψM]i
is the ith entry in ψM. Note that the IS is closely related to the ordering of state variables because of
500
the nature of the Cholesky factorisation. It maximises (minimises) the IS of the ﬁrst-ordered (last-ordered)
variable in pt. In a bivariate analysis, the IS is commonly calculated as the midpoint of upper and lower
bounds. Since there are K! possible permutations for K state variables, we compute the IS of each market
as the average value from the K! permutations, which is the same calculation method as So and Tse (2004)
and Ahn et al. (2019).
505
Lien and Shrestha (2009) suggest an improved version of IS that does not depend on the order of the
state variables, and call it the modiﬁed information share (MIS). Formally, the MIS in the ith market is
obtained as:
MISi = ([ψF]i)2
ψΩψ′ ,
for i = 1, · · · , K,
where F = (GΛ−1/2G′V −1)−1. G and Λ are derived from the correlation matrix of ϵt. Speciﬁcally, Λ is a
diagonal matrix whose diagonal entries are eigenvalues of the correlation matrix and G is a matrix whose
columns are the corresponding eigenvectors. V is a diagonal matrix whose diagonal entries are the standard
deviations of ϵt. It turns out that FF ′ = Ω. With this factorisation, the resulting MIS is invariant to the
ordering of the state variables.
510
20

===== PAGE 21 =====
The spillover eﬀects among markets are also derived from the VECM. Following Pesaran and Shin (1998),
we ﬁrst compute the generalised impulse response, which does not require orthogonalisation of the shocks
and is invariant to the variable ordering. Speciﬁcally, the h-period ahead generalised impulse response with
respect to a unit innovation in variable j is deﬁned as φj(h) = E[∆pt+h|ϵjt = 1, Θt−1] −E[∆pt+h|Θt−1],
where Θt−1 is the known history of the economy up to time t −1 and ϵjt is the jth entry in ϵt. Pesaran and
Shin (1998) show that it can be calculated as:
φj(h) = ω−1/2
jj
ΨhΩej,
h = 0, 1, 2, ...,
(4)
where ωjj is the jth diagonal entry in Ωand ej is a column vector which takes one for the jth entry and
zero for others. Ψh is the moving average coeﬃcient matrix from Equation (2). The entry in row i in φj(h)
indicates the consequence of the ith-ordered state variable at time t + h with respect to a unit innovation in
jth-ordered state variable in time t.
From this generalised impulse response, we obtain the generalised forecast error variance decomposition,
which is also invariant to the state variable ordering. Speciﬁcally, the generalised h-step ahead forecast error
variance of the ith variable attributed to the innovations in the jth variable, denoted by θij(h), is
θij(h) =
ω−1
jj
Ph−1
k=0(e′
iΨkΩej)2
Ph−1
k=0 e′
iΨkΩΨ′
kei
,
i, j = 1, · · · , K,
h = 0, 1, 2, · · · ,
(5)
For better economic interpretation, we normalise this measure so that the generalised forecast error variances
515
of a variable accounted for by all variables sum to one: ˜θij(h) =
θij(h)
PK
k=1 θiK(h). Following Diebold and Yilmaz
(2012), ˜θij(h) is interpreted as the gross spillover transmitted from variable j to variable i. The net spillover
from variable j to variable i is deﬁned as ˜θij(h)−˜θji(h). We choose the one-hour horizon (h = 60) to capture
the long-run spillovers. Finally, the total spillover is deﬁned as 1 −1
K
PK
i=1 ˜θii(h).
21

===== PAGE 22 =====
References
520
Ad¨ammer, P., Bohl, M.T., Gross, C., 2016. Price Discovery in Thinly Traded Futures Markets: How Thin
is Too Thin? Journal of Futures Markets 36, 851–869. doi:10.1002/fut.21760.
Admati, A.R., Pﬂeiderer, P., 1988. A Theory of Intraday Patterns: Volume and Price Variability. The
Review of Financial Studies 1, 3–40. doi:10.1093/rfs/1.1.3.
Ahn, K., Bi, Y., Sohn, S., 2019. Price discovery among SSE 50 Index-based spot, futures, and options
525
markets. Journal of Futures Markets 39, 238–259. doi:10.1002/fut.21970.
Alexander, C., Heck, D., 2019. Price Discovery, High-Frequency Trading and Jumps in Bitcoin Markets.
SSRN Electronic Journal doi:10.2139/ssrn.3383147.
Baillie, R.T., Geoﬀrey Booth, G., Tse, Y., Zabotina, T., 2002. Price discovery and common factor models.
Journal of Financial Markets 5, 309–321. doi:10.1016/S1386-4181(02)00027-7.
530
Bariviera, A.F., 2017. The ineﬃciency of Bitcoin revisited: A dynamic approach. Economics Letters 161,
1–4. doi:10.1016/j.econlet.2017.09.013.
Baur, D.G., Dimpﬂ, T., 2019.
Price discovery in bitcoin spot or futures?
Journal of Futures Markets
Forthcoming. doi:10.1002/fut.22004.
Bohl, M.T., Salm, C.A., Schuppli, M., 2011. Price discovery and investor structure in stock index futures.
535
Journal of Futures Markets 31, 282–306. doi:10.1002/fut.20469.
Booth, G.G., So, R.W., Tse, Y., 1999. Price discovery in the German equity index derivatives markets.
Journal of Futures Markets 19, 619–643. doi:10.1002/(SICI)1096-9934(199909)19:6<619::AID-FUT1>
3.0.CO;2-M.
Brauneis, A., Mestel, R., 2018. Price discovery of cryptocurrencies: Bitcoin and beyond. Economics Letters
540
165, 58–61. doi:10.1016/j.econlet.2018.02.001.
Bundi, N., Wildi, M., 2019. Bitcoin and market-(in)eﬃciency: A systematic time series approach. Digital
Finance doi:10.1007/s42521-019-00004-z.
Cabrera, J., Wang, T., Yang, J., 2009. Do futures lead price discovery in electronic foreign exchange markets?
Journal of Futures Markets 29, 137–156. doi:10.1002/fut.20352.
545
Chakravarty, S., Gulen, H., Mayhew, S., 2004. Informed Trading in Stock and Option Markets. The Journal
of Finance 59, 1235–1257. doi:10.1111/j.1540-6261.2004.00661.x.
22

===== PAGE 23 =====
Chen, W.P., Chung, H., 2012. Has the introduction of S&P 500 ETF options led to improvements in price
discovery of SPDRs? Journal of Futures Markets 32, 683–711. doi:10.1002/fut.20538.
Comerton-Forde, C., Putni¸nˇs, T.J., 2015. Dark trading and price discovery. Journal of Financial Economics
550
118, 70–92. doi:10.1016/j.jfineco.2015.06.013.
Corbet, S., Lucey, B., Peat, M., Vigne, S., 2018. Bitcoin Futures – What use are they? Economics Letters
172, 23–27. doi:10.1016/j.econlet.2018.07.031.
Diebold, F.X., Yilmaz, K., 2012. Better to give than to receive: Predictive directional measurement of
volatility spillovers. International Journal of Forecasting 28, 57–66. doi:10.1016/j.ijforecast.2011.
555
02.006.
Ederington, L.H., 1979. The Hedging Performance of the New Futures Markets. The Journal of Finance 34,
157–170. doi:10.1111/j.1540-6261.1979.tb02077.x.
Eross, A., McGroarty, F., Urquhart, A., Wolfe, S., 2019. The intraday dynamics of bitcoin. Research in
International Business and Finance 49, 71–81. doi:10.1016/j.ribaf.2019.01.008.
560
Gandal, N., Hamrick, J., Moore, T., Oberman, T., 2018. Price manipulation in the Bitcoin ecosystem.
Journal of Monetary Economics 95, 86–96. doi:10.1016/j.jmoneco.2017.12.004.
Gonzalo, J., Granger, C., 1995. Estimation of Common Long-Memory Components in Cointegrated Systems.
Journal of Business & Economic Statistics 13, 27–35. doi:10.1080/07350015.1995.10524576.
Griﬃn, J.M., Shams, A., 2018. Is Bitcoin Really Un-Tethered?
SSRN Electronic Journal doi:10.2139/
565
ssrn.3195066.
Hale, G., Krishnamurthy, A., Kudlyak, M., Shultz, P., 2018. How Futures Trading Changed Bitcoin Prices.
FRBSF Economic Letter 2018-12. Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco.
Hasbrouck, J., 1995. One Security, Many Markets: Determining the Contributions to Price Discovery. The
Journal of Finance 50, 1175–1199. doi:10.1111/j.1540-6261.1995.tb04054.x.
570
Hauptﬂeisch, M., Putni¸nˇs, T.J., Lucey, B., 2016. Who Sets the Price of Gold? London or New York. Journal
of Futures Markets 36, 564–586. doi:10.1002/fut.21775.
Hendershott, T., Jones, C.M., 2005. Island Goes Dark: Transparency, Fragmentation, and Regulation. The
Review of Financial Studies 18, 743–793. doi:10.1093/rfs/hhi013.
Hsieh, W.L.G., Lee, C.S., Yuan, S.F., 2008.
Price discovery in the options markets: An application of
575
put-call parity. Journal of Futures Markets 28, 354–375. doi:10.1002/fut.20302.
23

===== PAGE 24 =====
Jiang, Y., Nie, H., Ruan, W., 2018. Time-varying long-term memory in Bitcoin market. Finance Research
Letters 25, 280–284. doi:10.1016/j.frl.2017.12.009.
de Jong, A., de Roon, F., Veld, C., 1997.
Out-of-sample hedging eﬀectiveness of currency futures for
alternative models and hedging strategies. Journal of Futures Markets 17, 817–837. doi:10.1002/(SICI)
580
1096-9934(199710)17:7<817::AID-FUT5>3.0.CO;2-Q.
de Jong, F., Donders, M.W.M., 1998. Intraday Lead-Lag Relationships Between the Futures-, Options and
Stock Market. Review of Finance 1, 337–359. doi:10.1023/A:1009765322522.
Lien, D., Shrestha, K., 2009. A new information share measure. Journal of Futures Markets 29, 377–395.
doi:10.1002/fut.20356.
585
Lo, A.W., MacKinlay, A.C., 1988. Stock Market Prices Do Not Follow Random Walks: Evidence from a
Simple Speciﬁcation Test. The Review of Financial Studies 1, 41–66. doi:10.1093/rfs/1.1.41.
Nakamoto, S., 2008. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System. Technical Report.
Park, T.H., Switzer, L.N., 1995. Bivariate GARCH estimation of the optimal hedge ratios for stock index
futures: A note. Journal of Futures Markets 15, 61–67. doi:10.1002/fut.3990150106.
590
Pesaran, H.H., Shin, Y., 1998. Generalized impulse response analysis in linear multivariate models. Eco-
nomics Letters 58, 17–29. doi:10.1016/S0165-1765(97)00214-0.
Rosenberg, J.V., Traub, L.G., 2009. Price Discovery in the Foreign Currency Futures and Spot Market. The
Journal of Derivatives 17, 7–25. doi:10.3905/JOD.2009.17.2.007.
Sensoy, A., 2019. The ineﬃciency of Bitcoin revisited: A high-frequency analysis with alternative currencies.
595
Finance Research Letters 28, 68–73. doi:10.1016/j.frl.2018.04.002.
So, R.W., Tse, Y., 2004. Price discovery in the hang seng index markets: Index, futures, and the tracker
fund. Journal of Futures Markets 24, 887–907. doi:10.1002/fut.20112.
Sohn, S., Zhang, X., 2017. Could the Extended Trading of CSI 300 Index Futures Facilitate Its Role of Price
Discovery? Journal of Futures Markets 37, 717–740. doi:10.1002/fut.21804.
600
Tiwari, A.K., Jana, R.K., Das, D., Roubaud, D., 2018. Informational eﬃciency of Bitcoin—An extension.
Economics Letters 163, 106–109. doi:10.1016/j.econlet.2017.12.006.
Twomey, D., Mann, A., 2019. Fraud and Manipulation within Cryptocurrency Markets, in: Alexander,
C., Cumming, D. (Eds.), Corruption and Fraud in Financial Markets : Malpractice, Misconduct and
Manipulation. S.l.
605
24

===== PAGE 25 =====
Urquhart, A., 2016. The ineﬃciency of Bitcoin. Economics Letters 148, 80–82. doi:10.1016/j.econlet.
2016.09.019.
Vidal-Tom´as, D., Iba˜nez, A., 2018. Semi-strong eﬃciency of Bitcoin. Finance Research Letters 27, 259–265.
doi:10.1016/j.frl.2018.03.013.
Wei, W.C., 2018.
Liquidity and market eﬃciency in cryptocurrencies.
Economics Letters 168, 21–24.
610
doi:10.1016/j.econlet.2018.04.003.
[dataset] Bitcoincharts, 2019. Bitcoincharts API data repository. URL: http://api.bitcoincharts.com/
v1/csv/. accessed as of April 2019.
[dataset] Bitcoinity, 2019. Bitcoinity trading volume and bid/ask spread. URL: http://data.bitcoinity.
org. accessed as of April 2019.
615
[dataset] BitMEX, 2019. Public BitMEX API data repository. https://public.bitmex.com/. Accessed as
of April 2019.
25

===== PAGE 26 =====
Figure 1: Market characteristics of BitMEX and bitcoin spot markets
201701
201801
201901
103
104
Price (log scale)
BitMEX
Bitstamp
Coinbase Pro
Kraken
201701
201801
201901
-0.15
-0.1
-0.05
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
Return
BitMEX
Bitstamp
Coinbase Pro
Kraken
201701
201801
201901
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.06
0.07
0.08
Return volatility
BitMEX
Bitstamp
Coinbase Pro
Kraken
201701
201801
201901
-0.05
0
0.05
BitMEX log basis
Bitstamp
Coinbase Pro
Kraken
Note: Figure 1 plots the daily market characteristics of the bitcoin spot exchanges (Bitstamp, Coinbase, and Kraken) and the
perpetual swap exchange (BitMEX). Return volatility is computed by the standard deviation of 1-minute returns. BitMEX log
basis is the diﬀerence in log prices between BitMEX and a spot exchange. All variables are measured at a daily frequency. The
sample period is from July 1, 2016 to January 3, 2019.
26

===== PAGE 27 =====
Figure 2: The exchange volume share over the sample period
201607
201610
201701
201704
201707
201710
201801
201804
201807
201810
201901
10-1
100
101
BitMEX (Swap)
Bitstamp
Coinbase Pro
Kraken
BitMEX (Futures)
CBOE
CME
Note: Figure 2 plots the ratio of the exchange volume to the total spot trading volume in log scale. For the total spot trading
volume, we use the combined volume of Bitstamp, Coinbase, and Kraken.
27

===== PAGE 28 =====
Table 1: Comparison of contract types traded on BitMEX, CBOE, and CME
BitMEX
CBOE
CME
Contracts
Perpetual swap
Futures
Futures
Futures
Product Code
XBTUSD
XBTmYY
XBTmYY
BTCmY
First Traded
5/13/2016
11/24/2014
12/10/2017
12/18/2017
Contract Unit
1 USD
1 XBT
5 XBT
Margin Requirement
1 %
40%
37%
Settlement Currency
XBT
USD (Cash)
Proﬁt & Loss
± UN (1/x1 −1/x2)
± UN (x2 −x1)
Tick increment
0.5 USD
5 USD
Trading days
Everyday
Monday to Friday
Quoting Convention
1 XBT = x USD
Note: In ‘Product Code’, m denotes the code for the expiry month and Y and YY denote the last one and two digits of the
expiry year, respectively. In ‘Proﬁt & Loss’, U denote the contract unit, N the number of contracts, x1 and x2 denote the entry
and exit prices in the quoting convention. The sign ± denotes long and short positions respectively.
28

===== PAGE 29 =====
Table 2: Daily average trading volume by exchanges
BitMEX
Spot Exchanges
Futures Exchanges
Swap
Futures
Bitstamp
Coinbase
Kraken
CBOE
CME
2016 (Jul–Dec)
5.60
1.47
4.27
4.96
1.15
2017 (Jan–Jun)
28.42
9.59
10.73
11.47
4.22
2017 (Jul–Dec)
96.32
14.67
14.98
18.58
5.86
2018 (Jan–Jun)
280.86
14.97
13.62
16.27
7.07
5.88
14.33
2018 (Jul–Dec)
398.18
16.90
7.93
10.35
5.49
3.62
22.80
Full-sample period
162.70
11.53
10.29
12.31
4.76
4.79
18.79
Note: Table 2 shows the daily average volume by exchange in thousand bitcoin. The sample period is divided into six month
periods. For convenience, the three days in January 2019 are included in ‘2018 (Jul-Dec)’ and the CBOE data in December
2017 is included in ‘2018 (Jan-Jun)’. Saturday, Sunday, and other trading holidays were not counted in averaging for CBOE
and CBOE.
29

===== PAGE 30 =====
Table 3: Cointegration tests
Engle-Granger Test
Johansen Test
Null hypothesis
No cointegration
r = 0 vs r ≥1
r = 1 vs r ≥2
r = 2 vs r ≥3
r = 3 vs r ≥4
Panel A. Full-sample period
Test statistic
-170.43
83,327.02
47,328.19
12,303.39
2.02
p-value
(<0.0001)
(<0.0001)
(<0.0001)
(<0.0001)
(0.1556)
% of rejecting H0
99.45%
100.00%
100.00%
95.64%
16.36%
Panel B. Bull period
Test statistic
-118.32
45,948.37
24,324.38
6,785.31
6.26
p-value
(<0.0001)
(<0.0001)
(<0.0001)
(<0.0001)
(0.0126)
% of rejecting H0
99.07%
100.00%
100.00%
93.64%
14.77%
Panel C. Bear period
Test statistic
-204.58
75,409.72
25,689.56
7,327.58
4.66
p-value
(<0.0001)
(<0.0001)
(<0.0001)
(<0.0001)
(0.0309)
% of rejecting H0
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
98.43%
18.59%
Note: Table 3 presents the results of the cointegration tests for a given sample period. The Engle-Granger test assesses the null
hypothesis of no cointegration among the log prices. The Johansen test assesses the null hypothesis of a particular cointegration
rank against the alternative of higher ranks. The number of lags in the tests is set to zero. The last row in each panel reports
the proportion of days in which H0 is rejected at the 1% signiﬁcance level when the cointegration tests are conducted on a
daily basis. Panel A presents the results in the full sample (July 1, 2016 to Jan 3, 2019), while Panel B (C) presents the period
before (after) the historical price peak on December 17, 2017.
30

===== PAGE 31 =====
Table 4: Modiﬁed information shares and component shares
MIS
CS
Mean
Median
Overall
Mean
Median
Overall
Panel A. Full-sample period
BitMEX
51.53%
53.35%
59.52%
57.50%
54.91%
59.72%
Bitstamp
18.48%
16.88%
16.78%
15.61%
13.72%
13.79%
Coinbase
23.18%
18.17%
19.29%
21.24%
21.26%
18.17%
Kraken
6.81%
4.12%
4.41%
5.64%
4.79%
8.31%
Panel B. Bull period
BitMEX
52.25%
54.94%
65.85%
50.09%
49.39%
58.94%
Bitstamp
16.32%
13.77%
14.40%
13.55%
11.27%
13.56%
Coinbase
26.65%
20.63%
17.56%
29.39%
29.35%
20.60%
Kraken
4.79%
2.76%
2.19%
6.97%
6.12%
6.90%
Panel C. Bear period
BitMEX
50.53%
52.81%
49.60%
67.89%
69.39%
59.10%
Bitstamp
21.50%
21.06%
25.78%
18.50%
17.94%
24.91%
Coinbase
18.32%
16.93%
15.05%
9.83%
9.31%
3.40%
Kraken
9.64%
7.17%
9.57%
3.78%
1.27%
12.59%
Note: Table 4 shows the modiﬁed information shares (MIS) and component shares (CS) of the four markets: BitMEX, Bitstamp,
Coinbase, and Kraken, for a given sample period. The columns of Mean (Median) report the average (median) of the values
obtained from the daily VECM estimation. The column of Overall reports the values obtained from one VECM estimation
using the whole observations in the given sample period. Panel A presents the results in the full sample (July 1, 2016 to Jan
3, 2019), while Panel B (C) presents the period before (after) the historical price peak on December 17, 2017.
31

===== PAGE 32 =====
Figure 3: Modiﬁed information shares and component shares
Panel A. Modified Information Share
201607
201610
201701
201704
201707
201710
201801
201804
201807
201810
201901
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
BitMEX
Bitstamp
Coinbase Pro
Kraken
Panel B. Component Share
201607
201610
201701
201704
201707
201710
201801
201804
201807
201810
201901
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
BitMEX
Bitstamp
Coinbase Pro
Kraken
Note: Figure 3 plots the daily modiﬁed information shares and component shares in the four markets: BitMEX, Bitstamp,
Coinbase, and Kraken. The price of bitcoin perpetual swaps represents BitMEX, while the price of bitcoin spot represents the
other markets. Modiﬁed information shares and component shares are calculated on a daily basis from a VECM using minute-
by-minute log prices in the four markets according to Hasbrouck (1995) and Gonzalo and Granger (1995), respectively. The lag
length of the model is chosen by the Bayesian information criterion. The time series are smoothed with a trailing exponentially
weighted moving average: MAt(a) = 0.1at + 0.9MAt−1(a), where a is either modiﬁed information share or common factor
weight.
32

===== PAGE 33 =====
Figure 4: Net spillover
Panel A. Net Spillover from BitMEX
201701
201801
201901
-0.08
-0.06
-0.04
-0.02
0
0.02
0.04
0.06
Panel B. Net Spillover from Bitstamp
201701
201801
201901
-0.08
-0.06
-0.04
-0.02
0
0.02
0.04
0.06
Panel C. Net Spillover from Coinbase Pro
201701
201801
201901
-0.08
-0.06
-0.04
-0.02
0
0.02
0.04
0.06
Panel D. Net Spillover from Kraken
201701
201801
201901
-0.08
-0.06
-0.04
-0.02
0
0.02
0.04
0.06
Note: Figure 4 depicts the daily long-horizon (60-minute) net spillovers from the four markets: BitMEX, Bitstamp, Coinbase,
and Kraken. The price of bitcoin perpetual swaps represents BitMEX, while the price of bitcoin spot represents the other
markets. Following Diebold and Yilmaz (2012), the net spillover from market i is deﬁned as the gross spillover from market i to
the other markets minus that to market i from the other markets. The spillovers are estimated on a daily basis from a VECM
using minute-by-minute log prices.
33

===== PAGE 34 =====
Figure 5: Total spillover
Total Spillover
201607
201610
201701
201704
201707
201710
201801
201804
201807
201810
201901
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Note: Figure 5 depicts the daily long-horizon (60-minute) total spillovers among the four markets: BitMEX, Bitstamp, Coinbase,
and Kraken. The price of bitcoin perpetual swaps represents BitMEX, while the price of bitcoin spot represents the other
markets. The total spillover is estimated on a daily basis from a VECM using minute-by-minute log prices.
34

===== PAGE 35 =====
Figure 6: Autocorrelations and variance ratios
201701
201801
201901
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Panel A. BitMEX
AC
VR
201701
201801
201901
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Panel B. Bitstamp
AC
VR
201701
201801
201901
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Panel C. Coinbase
AC
VR
201701
201801
201901
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Panel D. Kraken
AC
VR
Note: Figure 6 plots the daily absolute autocorrelations (AC) and variance ratios (VR) in the four bitcoin markets: BitMEX,
Bitstamp, Coinbase, and Kraken. The price of bitcoin perpetual swaps represents BitMEX, while the price of bitcoin spot
represents the other markets. AC on a given day is obtained as an average of absolute return autocorrelations measured at
various intraday frequencies: 1-minute, 3-minute, 5-minute and 10-minute. VR on a given day is obtained as an average of
deviation of variance ratio from one measured at diﬀerent combinations of intraday frequencies: (5-minute, 1-minute), (10-
minute, 5-minute) and (20-minute and 10-minute). The time series are smoothed with a trailing exponentially weighted moving
average: MAt(a) = 0.1at + 0.9MAt−1(a), where a is either autocorrelation or variance ratio.
35

===== PAGE 36 =====
Table 5: Error correction coeﬃcients
Response of
With respect to deviation from
BitMEX
Bitstamp
Coinbase
Kraken
Panel A. Full-sample period
BitMEX
-0.0357***
-0.0038**
-0.0049***
(-15.617)
(-2.312)
(-3.359)
Bitstamp
-0.1952***
-0.2497***
-0.2267***
(-21.835)
(-20.330)
(-21.531)
Coinbase
-0.1047***
-0.1491***
-0.1157***
(-14.141)
(-13.512)
(-13.874)
Kraken
-0.1804***
-0.2487***
-0.2250***
(-23.815)
(-22.491)
(-24.283)
Panel B. Bull period
BitMEX
-0.0213***
-0.0081***
-0.0100***
(-14.935)
(-6.555)
(-10.901)
Bitstamp
-0.1405***
-0.1750***
-0.1604***
(-19.371)
(-18.725)
(-20.415)
Coinbase
-0.0497***
-0.0659***
-0.0559***
(-14.870)
(-13.981)
(-15.025)
Kraken
-0.1368***
-0.1785***
-0.1812***
(-27.325)
(-25.598)
(-27.164)
Panel C. Bear period
BitMEX
-0.0560***
0.0021
0.0023
(-24.012)
(0.977)
(1.207)
Bitstamp
-0.2718***
-0.3544***
-0.3195***
(-35.025)
(-31.708)
(-34.081)
Coinbase
-0.1817***
-0.2657***
-0.1993***
(-29.039)
(-28.871)
(-26.508)
Kraken
-0.2416***
-0.3471***
-0.2864***
(-31.454)
(-33.088)
(-27.871)
Note: Table 5 tabulates the average of estimated error correction coeﬃcients obtained from the daily estimation of the VECM
and the associated Newey-West t-statistics. The lag length in the VECM is chosen by the Bayesian information criterion.
The row of BitMEX shows the response of price in BitMEX when the price diﬀerence from the other exchanges (Bitstamp,
Coinbase or Kraken) increases by 1%. The other rows can be similarly interpreted. The coeﬃcients for other terms (constant
and autoregressive terms) are not reported to save space, but available upon request. Panel A presents the results in the full
sample (July 1, 2016 to Jan 3, 2019), while Panel B (C) presents the period before (after) the historical price peak on December
17, 2017. ***, **, * indicates the 1%, 5%, 10% signiﬁcance level, respectively.
36

===== PAGE 37 =====
Table 6: Gross and net spillovers
To
From
BitMEX
Bitstamp
Coinbase
Kraken
The others
Panel A. Full-sample period
Gross spillover
BitMEX
64.00%
14.94%
14.80%
6.26%
36.00%
Bitstamp
16.32%
67.15%
11.03%
5.50%
32.85%
Coinbase
17.69%
11.52%
64.28%
6.51%
35.72%
Kraken
10.24%
7.75%
8.85%
73.16%
26.84%
The others
44.25%
34.21%
34.67%
18.26%
32.85%
Net spillover
8.25%
1.36%
-1.04%
-8.58%
Panel B. Bull period
Gross spillover
BitMEX
78.99%
10.96%
8.94%
1.10%
21.01%
Bitstamp
12.10%
81.89%
5.20%
0.81%
18.11%
Coinbase
12.80%
6.35%
79.83%
1.02%
20.17%
Kraken
3.89%
2.40%
2.51%
91.20%
8.80%
The others
28.79%
19.71%
16.65%
2.93%
17.02%
Net spillover
7.78%
1.60%
-3.51%
-5.87%
Panel C. Bear period
Gross spillover
BitMEX
43.01%
20.51%
22.99%
13.48%
56.99%
Bitstamp
22.23%
46.52%
19.19%
12.06%
53.48%
Coinbase
24.54%
18.77%
42.51%
14.19%
57.49%
Kraken
19.15%
15.23%
17.73%
47.89%
52.11%
The others
65.91%
54.51%
59.91%
39.74%
55.02%
Net spillover
8.92%
1.03%
2.42%
-12.37%
Note: Table 6 shows the long-horizon (60-minute) gross and net spillovers for a given sample period. The (i, j) entry in the gross
spillover represents the estimated contribution to the forecast error variance of market i coming from innovations of market j,
while the entry in the net spillover is the diﬀerence between the gross spillover from market i to the other markets and the
gross spillover from the other markets to market i. The total spillover is deﬁned as the gross spillover from the others to the
others. Panel A presents the results in the full sample (July 1, 2016 to Jan 3, 2019), while Panel B (C) presents the period
before (after) the historical price peak on December 17, 2017.
37

===== PAGE 38 =====
Table 7: Determinants of price discovery shares in BitMEX
MIS
CS
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Constant
0.515***
0.515***
0.575***
0.566***
(83.10)
(53.35)
(61.70)
(43.48)
RSpread
0.0537***
0.0536***
0.0267***
0.0265***
(8.44)
(8.41)
(3.08)
(3.08)
RTV
-0.0187**
-0.0188**
-0.0560***
-0.0565***
(-2.31)
(-2.34)
(-4.56)
(-4.64)
Ret
0.0171***
0.0195**
0.0128
0.0222*
(2.72)
(2.35)
(1.25)
(1.71)
Abs.Basis
-0.0235***
-0.0386***
-0.0550***
-0.0739***
(-3.19)
(-3.95)
(-5.62)
(-6.06)
DRet<0
0.00220
0.0216
(0.13)
(0.93)
DRet<0 × Abs.Basis
0.0357***
0.0454**
(2.64)
(2.33)
Obs.
917
917
917
917
R2
0.112
0.121
0.102
0.109
Adjusted-R2
0.106
0.112
0.095
0.100
Note: Table 7 tabulates the regression results of the daily modiﬁed information share and component share in BitMEX on
several market characteristics. RSpread is the relative spread of spot markets (average spread of the spot markets divided by
BitMEX spread). RTV is the relative trading volume of spot markets (total trading volume of the spot markets divided by
BitMEX trading volume). Ret is the log change of bitcoin prices in BitMEX. Abs.Basis is the absolute basis (absolute value
of average diﬀerence of log prices between BitMEX and the spot markets). DRet<0 is a dummy indicating observations when
daily return is negative. The spot markets are represented by Bitstamp, Coinbase, and Kraken. All variables are measured at
a daily frequency and standardized to have zero-mean and unit-variance except for the dummy. The values in parenthesis are
the corresponding robust t-statistics. ***, **, and * indicate the 1%, 5%, and 10% signiﬁcance level, respectively.
38

===== PAGE 39 =====
Table 8: Out-of-sample hedge eﬀectiveness
Standard Deviation of Portfolio Return
Hedging Eﬀectiveness
Hedging methods
Bitstamp
Coinbase
Kraken
Bitstamp
Coinbase
Kraken
Unhedged position
4.69%
4.71%
4.66%
Naive hedge
0.39%
0.50%
0.88%
0.9930
0.9888
0.9642
Minimum variance hedge
0.37%
0.48%
0.86%
0.9939
0.9894
0.9658
Note: Table 8 presents the hedge eﬀectiveness of the BitMEX perpetual swap. The standard deviations are calculated from the
daily portfolio returns, ∆pi,d+1 −bid∆pBitMEX,d+1, for the second half of the sample, where pid is the log price in exchange i
on day d (i ∈{BitMEX, Bitstamp, Coinbase, and Kraken}). The hedge ratio, bid, is zero for the unhedged position and one for
a naive hedge. For the minimum variance hedge, bid is obtained as a slope coeﬃcient from the OLS regression of spot returns
in exchange i on BitMEX swap returns using a rolling window up to d. The hedging eﬀectiveness is deﬁned as the ratio of the
variance reduced by hedging.
39
