===== GET repec-search [200] chars=1452
Advanced search Browse Econ Literature Working papers Journals Software components Books Book chapters JEL classification More features Subscribe to new research RePEc Biblio Author registration Economics Virtual Seminar Calendar ConfWatcher NEW! Printed from https://ideas.repec.org IDEAS/RePEc search More services and features MyIDEAS Follow serials, authors, keywords more New papers by email Subscribe to new additions to RePEc Author registration Public profiles for Economics researchers Rankings Various research rankings in Economics RePEc Genealogy Who was a student of whom, using RePEc RePEc Biblio Curated articles papers on economics topics MPRA Upload your paper to be listed on RePEc and IDEAS New papers by email Subscribe to new additions to RePEc EconAcademics Blog aggregator for economics research Plagiarism Cases of plagiarism in Economics About RePEc RePEc home Initiative for open bibliographies in Economics Blog News about RePEc Help/FAQ Questions about IDEAS and RePEc RePEc team RePEc volunteers Participating archives Publishers indexing in RePEc Privacy statement Help us Corrections Found an error or omission? Volunteers Opportunities to help RePEc Get papers listed Have your research listed on RePEc Open a RePEc archive Have your institution's/publisher's output listed on RePEc Get RePEc data Use data assembled by RePEc IDEAS is a RePEc service. RePEc uses bibliographic data supplied by the respective publishers.

===== GET econpapers [200] chars=3894
EconPapers Home About EconPapers Working Papers Journal Articles Books and Chapters Software Components Authors JEL codes New Economics Papers Advanced Search EconPapers FAQ Archive maintainers FAQ Cookies at EconPapers The RePEc blog The RePEc plagiarism page Advanced Search Please run the search by clicking on Search. Free text search Tips for searching Search: Working Papers Journal Articles Books Chapters Software Items written in Any Language C/C++ Executable Fortran Gauss Mathematica Matlab/Octave Ox Perl Python Rats Shazam Stata Registered Authors Online Items Only Sort by Rank Date modified Title Combine terms by ANDing textboxes ORing textboxes Fielded Search Author: Rank author pages first in search for authors Keywords and Title: JEL-Code: Items in NEP report on - Select NEP report - Accounting and Auditing Africa Agricultural Economics Artificial Intelligence Banking Big Data Business Economics Business, Economic and Financial History Central Banking Central and South America Central and Western Asia China Cognitive and Behavioural Economics Collective Decision-Making Community banking and credit unions Computational Economics Confederation of Independent States Contract Theory and Applications Corporate Finance Cultural Economics Demographic Economics Development Discrete Choice Models Dynamic General Equilibrium Econometric Time Series Econometrics Economic Design Economic Geography Economic Growth Economics of Ageing Economics of Happiness Economics of Human Migration Economics of Strategic Management Education Efficiency and Productivity Energy Economics Entrepreneurship Environmental Economics European Economics Evolutionary Economics Experimental Economics Financial Development and Growth Financial Literacy and Education Financial Markets Forecasting Game Theory Gender German Papers Health Economics Heterodox Microeconomics History and Philosophy of Economics Housing and Real Estate Human Capital and Human Resource Management Industrial Competition Industrial Organization Informal and Underground Economics Information and Communication Technologies Innovation Insurance Economics Intellectual Property Rights International Activities of Firms International Finance International Trade Investment Islamic Finance Knowledge Management and Knowledge Economy Labor Markets - Supply, Demand, and Wages Labour Economics Law and Economics MENA - Middle East and North Africa Macroeconomics Market Microstructure Marketing Microeconomic European Issues Microeconomics Microfinance Mining Minorities Research (Ethnic, LGBTQ+, Disabilities) Monetary Economics Network Economics Neuroeconomics Nudge and Boosting Open Economy Macroeconomics Operations Research Payment Systems and Financial Technology Positive Political Economics Post Keynesian Economics Prices and Business cycles Project, Program and Portfolio Management Public Economics Public Finance Regulation Resource Economics Risk Management Small Business Management Social Norms and Social Capital Sociology of Economics South East Asia Sports and Economics Technology and Industrial Dynamics Tourism Economics Transition Economics Transport Economics Unemployment, Inequality and Poverty Urban Economics and Policy Urban and Real Estate Economics Utility Models and Prospect Theory New or updated items Modified last - Select age - 1 day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days 6 days 1 week 2 weeks 3 weeks 4 weeks 3 months 6 months 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 10 years 20 years Date is Creation/revision of item of metadata EconPapers search is now powered by Solr . See the search help for details. This site is part of RePEc and all the data displayed here is part of the RePEc data set. Is your work missing from RePEc? Here is how to contribute . Questions or problems? Check the EconPapers FAQ or send mail to . EconPapers is hosted by the School of Business at Örebro University .

===== GET routledge [403] chars=60
Forbidden You don't have permission to access this resource.

===== GET zetlinjones [404] chars=259
The University of Chicago The University of Chicago Object not found! The requested URL was not found on this server. If you entered the URL manually please check your spelling and try again. If you think this is a server error, please contact the webmaster .

===== OA-DOI 10.1016/j.ejor.2022.07.037
TITLE: Hedging with automatic liquidation and leverage selection on bitcoin futures
VENUE: European Journal of Operational Research | 2022 | article
AU: Carol Alexander, Jun Deng, Bin Zou
cites=28
OA: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejor.2022.07.037
ABSTRACT: Bitcoin derivatives positions are maintained with a self-selected margin, which is often too low to avoid automatic liquidation by the exchange, without notice, especially during periods of excessive volatility. Indeed, according to CryptoQuant, almost $80 billion of positions on centralised exchanges were liquidated during 2021, that is an average of over $200 million per day. So hedgers of bitcoin price risk should account for the possibility of automatic liquidation when taking positions on bitcoin futures. We derive a semi-closed form for an optimal hedging strategy with dual objectives – to minimize both the variance of the hedged portfolio and the probability of liquidation due to insufficient collateral. The solution depends on the statistical characteristics of the spot and futures extreme returns, and other parameters that characterize the hedger by choice of leverage, loss aversion and collateral management. An empirical analysis based on minute-level data compares the performance of the major direct and inverse bitcoin hedging instruments traded on five major exchanges.

===== OA-DOI 10.62127/aijmr.2026.v04i04.1493
TITLE: Extreme Perpetual Futures Funding and Subsequent Bitcoin Returns: Intraday Evidence from Binance
VENUE: Advanced International Journal of Multidisciplinary Research | 2026 | article
AU: Hamza Memon, Karishma Anklesaria-Dalal, Rupam Mishra
cites=0
OA: https://www.aijmr.com/papers/2026/4/1493.pdf
ABSTRACT: Perpetual futures funding rates are central to cryptocurrency derivatives markets because they help anchor perpetual-contract prices to spot prices while simultaneously reflecting the state of the derivatives market. This study examines whether historically extreme Bitcoin perpetual-futures funding rates contain information about subsequent Bitcoin spot returns. Binance BTCUSDT perpetual funding observations from 10 September 2019 to 10 August 2026 are aligned with Binance BTCUSDT spot prices sampled at 15-minute frequency. Extreme funding is classified ex ante using the current funding rate's mid-rank percentile within the preceding 180-day distribution, with the lower and upper deciles defining extreme negative and extreme positive states. Bitcoin spot returns are measured over 15-minute, one-hour, four-hour, eight-hour and 24-hour post-settlement horizons. Parametric, non-parametric and directional tests are supplemented by heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation consistent regressions controlling for the four-hour price movement preceding settlement. The main result is concentrated in the negative tail: extreme negative funding is followed by an average 24-hour Bitcoin return of 0.506%, significant under t, Wilcoxon and directional-frequency tests and robust to false-discovery-rate adjustment. Extreme positive funding does not exhibit a comparable 24-hour effect. In categorical HAC regressions, extreme negative funding is associated with approximately 0.491 percentage points of additional 24-hour return after controlling for the pre-settlement return. Non-overlapping 24-hour subsamples retain positive and statistically significant mean returns after extreme negative funding. The evidence suggests that funding-rate information is nonlinear, asymmetric and horizon dependent rather than adequately represented by a simple linear relation between funding and future returns.

===== OA: Anatomy of Cryptocurrency Perpetual Futures Returns [429]
{"error":"Rate limit exceeded","message":"Insufficient budget. This request has no API key, so it counts against the free daily budget shared by every

===== GET oa-sysrev [429] chars=620
{"error":"Rate limit exceeded","message":"Insufficient budget. This request has no API key, so it counts against the free daily budget shared by everyone on your network's IP address, and that budget is used up ($0.0007 remaining; resets at midnight UTC). Use your own key instead: add ?api_key=YOUR_KEY to the URL, or send it as an \"Authorization: Bearer YOUR_KEY\" header. Keys are free and have their own budget: https://help.openalex.org/api/authentication/","retryAfter":32489,"costUsd":0.001,"dailyRemainingUsd":0.0007,"prepaidRemainingUsd":0,"creditsRequired":10,"creditsRemaining":7,"onetimeCreditsRemaining":0}

===== OA: bitcoin perpetual futures funding rate momentum reversal premium predictive [429]
{"error":"Rate limit exceeded","message":"Insufficient budget. This request has no API key, so it counts against the free daily budget shared by every

===== GET BIS2021-ch3 [200] chars=77549
  [leverag] 0 hits
  [perpetual] 0 hits
  [not own] 1 hits
  >>> ve been reported in some cases. 11 Related to the persistently high cost of some digital payment options is the lack of universal access to digital payment services. Access to bank and non-bank transaction accounts has improved dramatically over the past several decades, in particular in emerging market and developing economies (EMDEs). 12 Yet in many countries, a large share of adults still have no access to digital payment options. Even in advanced economies, some users lack payment cards and smartphones to make digital payments, participate in e-commerce and receive transfers (such as government-to-person payments). For instance, in the United States, over 5% of households were unbanked in 2019, and 14% of adults did not use a payment card in 2017. In France, in 2017, 13% of adults did not own a mobile phone. 13 Lower-income individuals, the homeless, migrants and other vulnerable groups are most likely to rely on cash. Due in part to market power and low expected margins, private PSPs often do not cater sufficiently to these groups. Remedies may necessitate public policy support as digital payments become more dominant. Graph III.3 The availability of massive amounts of user data gives rise to another important issue – that of data governance. Access to data confers competitive advantages that may entrench market power. Beyond the economic consequences, ensuring privacy against unjustified intrusion by both commercial and government actors has the attributes of a basic right. For these reasons, the issue of data governance has emerged as a key public policy concern. When US consumers were asked in a representative survey whom they trust with safeguarding their persona
  ---
  [right to] 1 hits
  >>> ddition to incremental improvements, many central banks are actively engaged in work on CBDCs as an advanced representation of central bank money for the digital economy. CBDCs may give further impetus to innovations that promote the efficiency, convenience and safety of the payment system. While CBDC projects and pilots have been under way since 2014, efforts have recently shifted into higher gear ( Graph III.1 , right-hand panel). The overriding criterion when evaluating a change to something as central as the monetary system should be whether it serves the public interest. Here, the public interest should be taken broadly to encompass not only the economic benefits flowing from a competitive market structure, but also the quality of governance arrangements and basic rights, such as the right to data privacy. It is in this context that the exploration of CBDCs provides an opportunity to review and reaffirm the public interest case for digital money. The monetary system is a public good that permeates people's everyday lives and underpins the economy. Technological development in money and payments could bring wide benefits, but the ultimate consequences for the well-being of individuals in society depend on the market structure and governance arrangements that underpin it. The same technology could encourage either a virtuous circle of equal access, greater competition and innovation, or it could foment a vicious circle of entrenched market power and data concentration. The outcome will depend on the rules governing the payment system and whether these will result in open payment platforms and a competitive level playing field. Graph III 1 Central bank interest in CBDCs
  ---
  [short] 2 hits
  >>> reate a virtuous circle, driving greater financial inclusion, better services and lower costs. On the other, it impels the market for payments towards further concentration. For example in China, just two big techs jointly account for 94% of the mobile payments market. 7 Authorities have recently addressed concerns about anti-competitive practices that exclude competitors in associated digital services such as e-commerce and social media. 8 This concentration of market power is a reason why authorities in some economies are increasingly turning to an entity-based approach to regulating big techs, as a complement to the existing activities-based approach. 9 Graph III.2 Entrenchment of market power may potentially exacerbate the high costs of payment services, still one of the most stubborn shortcomings of the existing payment system. An example is the high merchant fees associated with credit and debit card payments. Despite decades of ever-accelerating technological progress, which has drastically reduced the price of communication equipment and bandwidth, the cost of conventional digital payment options such as credit and debit cards remains high, and still exceeds that of cash ( Graph III.2 , left-hand panel). In some regions, revenues deriving from credit card fees are more than 1% of GDP (right-hand panel). These costs are not immediately visible to consumers. Charges are usually levied on the merchants, who are often not allowed to pass these fees directly on to the consumer. However, the ultimate incidence of these costs depends on what share of the merchant fees are passed on to the consumer indirectly through higher prices. As is well known in the economics of ind
  ---
  >>>  harness the DNA loop, breaking down the silos and associated market power of incumbent private firms with exclusive control over user data. Although CBDCs and FPS have many characteristics in common, one difference is that CBDCs extend the unique features and benefits of today's digital central bank money directly to the general public. 17 In a CBDC, a payment only involves transferring a direct claim on the central bank from one end user to another. Funds do not pass over the balance sheet of an intermediary, and transactions are settled directly in central bank money, on the central bank's balance sheet and in real time. By contrast, in an FPS the retail payee receives final funds immediately, but the underlying wholesale settlement between PSPs may be deferred. 18 This delay implies a short-term loan between parties, together with underlying credit risk on those exposures ( Graph III.6 ): the payee's bank credits its account in real time, while it has an account payable vis-à-vis the payer's bank. In an FPS with deferred settlement, credit exposures between banks accumulate during the delay, for example over weekends. This exposure may be fully or partially collateralised – an institutional safeguard designed by the central bank. Graph III.6 Nevertheless, a CBDC allows for a more direct form of settlement, eliminating the need for intermediary credit and hence simplifying the architecture of the monetary system. An example of the potential benefits, to be discussed in a later section, is the potential to address the high costs and inefficiencies of international payments by extending these virtues of greater simplicity to the cross-border case. At a more basic level, 
  ---

