

===== PAGE 1 =====
The Crypto Carry Trade∗
Nicolas Christin
School of Computer Science and Department of Engineering and Public Policy
Carnegie Mellon University
Bryan R. Routledge
Tepper School of Business
Carnegie Mellon University
Kyle Soska
Ramiel Capital
Ariel Zetlin-Jones
Tepper School of Business
Carnegie Mellon University
August 18, 2023
Abstract:
The primary derivative contract on cryptocurrency exchanges is the perpetual futures
contract. These contracts are denominated in either Tether (dollar) or coin (cryp-
tocurrency). We study the empirical properties for 18 cryptocurrencies (36 contracts).
We define a strategy, “crypto carry trade” that is short perpetual futures and long
spot market and document that it has a high Sharpe ratio (e.g., 8.76 per year for Bit-
coin Tether contract; 4.93 per year for coin). We interpret these results through the
lens of a simple heterogeneous beliefs model to suggest that cryptocurrency exchange
markets were facilitating leverage for long-side traders.
∗Thanks for helpful comments to Nicola Borri and Burton Hollifield. We also are grateful to
participants at the NBER’s Big Data and High-Performance Computing for Financial Economics
Conference, Society for Economic Dynamics Annual Meeting, and the Western Finance Association.
We are thankful for the financial support of the PNC Center for Financial Services Innovation at
Carnegie Mellon University. Contact authors at: routledge@cmu.edu


===== PAGE 2 =====
1
Introduction
Spot transactions of cryptocurrency involve a change in ownership of the coins. Some
of these transactions may include an entry on a blockchain ledger. Some spot cryp-
tocurrency transactions occur on centralized exchanges where the ownership of the
underlying cryptocurrency is indirect (e.g., Coinbase owns the coins and a trader
owns a liability of Coinbase). Each of these spot transactions are analogous to trades
of equity or physical commodities where the assets are in positive net supply. In
contrast, trades of derivative securities do not involve changes in ownership of a cryp-
tocurrency asset but a contract for a contingent payment between two parties. The
connection between derivative market transactions – financialization – and the price
dynamics in the underlying spot market is important in many markets. Harrison and
Kreps (1978), for example, show the importance of short-sale contracts on spot prices
of equity. In commodities, the period from 2004 to 2008 saw both increasing prices,
oil in particular, and increases in the degree of financialization of commodities (e.g.
the growth in the trade volume of commodity index funds. CFTC (2008). The high-
profile senate testimony of Michael Masters (Masters (2008)) summarized many of
the key concerns with financialization – the financialization was “causing” the higher
prices. On the other side of the discussion is that the derivative trading does not
involve consumption of the commodity and so has minimal impact on the spot price
(Hamilton (2009) and Wright (2011)).
In this paper we explore the most popular derivative contract in cryptocurrencies, the
“perpetual futures” contract, and use its unusual design to study the financialization
of cryptocurrencies. Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies seem an asset where differences
of opinion and heterogenous beliefs might be large. Here, financialization through
a derivative market facilitates both short positions and levered-long positions. So a
derivative market might have appeal to both optimists and pessimists. Hence, the
impact of derivative trading opportunities on spot-market holdings is ambiguous. Is
there more demand to be long or short? Of course, we cannot measure demand pres-
sure directly since long and shorts are matched by construction (zero net-supply).
Instead, we use the design characteristics of the perpetual futures contract to con-
struct a trading strategy that is reminiscent of the “carry trade” in foreign exchange
or traditional commodity markets to see demand pressure. We show that a trade that
1


===== PAGE 3 =====
is short a futures contract and hedged with a position in the spot market is unusually
profitable. Put differently, the long derivative position is a relatively expensive way to
be long cryptocurrencies. Since people appear willing to pay a premium for long-side
exposure to cryptocurrencies on a derivatives exchange relative to the spot market
suggests much of the demand for cryptocurrency derivatives is on the long side.
The volume of traded derivatives in cryptocurrency is sizable. Figure 1 shows the
trading volume for Bitcoin (BTC) on centralized spot markets and derivative mar-
kets aggregated across major markets (measured in units of BTC to avoid distorting
volumes with the large variation in the price of Bitcoin over this period). The bulk
of that volume is on exchanges located outside typical U.S. regulation like Binance,
FTX, and BitMEX.1 Of that derivative volume, the perpetual futures derivative con-
tract is by far the most popular and liquid derivative contract in cryptocurrencies.
Perpetual derivatives account for 98.2% of the Bitcoin futures volume in our sample
with traditional dated-delivery futures contracts the tiny remaining fraction (see Fig-
ure 2). The perpetual futures contract, initially used by the BitMEX platform was
designed to let traders trade something like “spot” but in a derivative context.2 The
contract looks like a futures contract that is marked to market. The salient feature of
these contracts is that there is no fixed settlement date. At date t, the long and short
side enter the contract with terms – the futures price – denoted Ft. Similar to regular
futures markets, there is also no initial payment between the buyer and seller. Each
period (in practice this is close to continuously), the positions are marked-to-market
with profits Ft+1 −Ft for the long side and Ft −Ft+1 for the short side. The design
goal is that the contract price Ft tracks a cryptocurrency spot price index Pt. Unlike
a fixed-maturity-date forward contract, there is no one point where the futures price
is pinned down by a settlement mechanism. To connect the futures and the spot
market, the exchange has interim cash flows, called “funding,” between the long and
1Augustin, Rubtsov, and Shin (2023) analyses the introduction of Bitcoin futures on the CBOE
and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) in December 2017. Their paper looks at the impact of
the derivatives on price efficiency, market quality, and liquidity. Interestingly, volumes at the CBOE
and CME were initially very small – CBOE stopped trading BTC futures in 2019. The percentage
of overall volume on the CME has increased following the collapse of Luna in March 2022 and then
FTX in November.
2The idea of the perpetual contract dates to Shiller (1993). BitMEX is the first major derivatives
market that pioneered the perpetual futures contract..
See Soska, Dong, Khodaverdian, Zetlin-
Jones, Routledge, and Christin (2021) and https://cryptotrade.cylab.cmu.edu/ for a detailed
description.
2


===== PAGE 4 =====
short side of the contract. Based on the notional value of the contract, a “funding
rate,” rt,c is defined where the holders of long positions pay holders of short positions.
The direction of the payments is just a matter of convention in the definition of the
funding rate. Empirically, we observe that the funding rate is typically positive so
longs paying shorts is most common. However, we do see episodes of a negative rate
in our sample, as around the time of the FTX bankruptcy. In these cases, the pay-
ment flow is from short side to the long side. The rate is set by the exchange and
transfers are made every eight hours. The formula for calculating the funding rate
is public and the rate is posted by the exchange.3 The idea is that the funding rate
ought to drive the basis spread Ft −Pt towards zero by adjusting the returns of the
long and short positions. Empirically, we see that the contract does achieve this goal
and the perpetual futures price tracks the spot price within a very tight band.
To isolate the impact of funding and the basis spread, we construct the returns to
a trade that is long one Bitcoin (using BTC as an example), in the spot market
and short an equivalently sized position in the perpetual futures market. The short
position in the perpetual future earns the funding rt,c (if it happens to be positive).
The long-spot and short-forward positions offer an imperfect hedge for changes in
cryptocurrency prices. The hedge is imperfect since the two positions are in different
markets and the basis next period, Ft+1 −Pt+1 relative to current Ft −Pt is stochastic.
In foreign currency markets, the carry trade involves a long and short position in two
currencies to earn a spread on the interest rate differential (akin to the funding) at
the risk of movement in the relative exchange rates (the basis risk in this trade). See
Ready, Roussanov, and Ward (2017), for example. In physical commodity markets,
the carry trade involves buying a physical commodity on the spot market and a short
position in a forward contract. Here, the return comes from the difference in current
spot price and the forward price net of storage costs (see Routledge, Seppi, and Spatt
(2000)). The basis risk at maturity comes from the settlement provisions.4
3On Binance, the funding rate is set at 0.01% per eight-hour period plus an adjustment that de-
pends on the basis, Ft−Pt
Pt
. The actual calculation is weighted by quantities in the order book and the
measurement is designed to discourage manipulation of the spot-index price. The exact details are
available on the exchange website (https://www.binance.com/en/support/faq/360033525031).
Other exchanges, like BitMEX, are similar with slight variation in how/when the funding is calcu-
lated.
4Often this basis risk is small. An extreme example occurred in April, 2020, when shipping and
pipeline disruptions caused the forward settlement price to be – negative $37.63 a barrel.
3


===== PAGE 5 =====
The data we use is for the Binance Exchange, which over our sample period was one
of the largest exchanges by volume. We use perpetual futures prices, funding rates,
and spot index prices for 18 different cryptocurrencies. For each currency we have
price and funding data for both the Tether-based contract and the coin-based contract
(described in more detail in Section 2). Of the cryptocurrencies, the Bitcoin contracts
are by far the most heavily traded. Our data period is 2020-08-11 – 2023-06-23. The
data is at the minute frequency, but here we focus on the 8-hour funding periods. Over
this sample, the prices of cryptocurrencies happen to have several significant price
run ups and drops (see Figure 3). The latter part of the sample includes the systemic
events involving Terra/Luna (2022-05-09), Three Arrows Capital (2022-06-22), and
FTX (2022-11-11), as well as bankruptcy of Silicon Valley Bank (2023-03-10).
We document that the return on the crypto carry trade is typically high and the
volatility of the return is small. Across our whole sample and across many underlying
cryptocurrencies, the Sharpe ratios are large. For example, the full-sample Sharpe
ratio for Bitcoin (BTC) is 8.76 per year for the Tether denominated contract and
4.93 per year for the coin denominated contract. For this same period, 2020-08-11 –
2023-06-23, the buy-and-hold Sharpe ratio is 0.46 per year for a long Bitcoin position
and 0.33 for US equities. We also see that the Sharpe ratio from the crypto carry
trade are broadly unrelated to the performance of the underlying cryptocurrency.
In subsamples where the price of BTC increased and decreased, the crypto carry
trade is consistently large and positive. We document that the Sharpe ratios are
particularly large in the earlier part of our sample when exchange policies permitted
for very large leverage. The Sharpe ratios are much smaller in the later part of the
sample that includes the bankruptcy of FTX and several other systemic events. The
exchange trades two types of contract for each cryptocurrency. One is denominated
in Tether (a stable coin pegged to the US dollar) and one is denominated in the
underlying coin. The returns to the carry trade are consistently higher for the Tether
denominated contract.
Why is the return to this strategy particularly large? One explanation, we argue, is
that the returns to the crypto carry trade capture the long-side’s willingness to pay for
access to leverage. That is a natural place to look for an explanation as retail access
to high leverage is a distinct characteristic of cryptocurrency derivative exchanges.5
5Soska, Dong, Khodaverdian, Zetlin-Jones, Routledge, and Christin (2021) discusses BitMEX,
4


===== PAGE 6 =====
We explore this hypothesis in two ways. First, our sample spans a dramatic change
in Binance leverage policy. In July of 2021, Binance reduced the maximum possible
leverage from 125x to 50x. We see this corresponds to a drop in crypto carry trade
returns. Second, the two flavors of perpetual contracts Binance offers, Tether-based
and coin-based, have different risk implications for the same level of initial margin. A
trader seeking a levered long position, all else equal, prefers the Tether-based contract
while a trader seeking a levered short position prefers the coin-based product. This
preference aligns with the empirical finding that the Tether-based crypto carry return
is larger than in the coin-based contract.
Relative to traditional derivative exchanges, the risk directly related to the viability
of cryptocurrency exchange is particularly relevant. Many cryptocurrency exchanges
have failed. FTX in November 2022 was the largest in a surprisingly long list. Several
other exchanges have been sanctioned or are in jeopardy from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (CFTC) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
For example, In August of 2021, a CFTC complaint lead to a $100 million fine against
BitMEX and in June, 2023, the SEC filed charges against both Binance and Coinbase.
This risk is relevant to the crypto carry trade is two fold. First, margin balance is lost
if the exchange fails. Second, the long coin position is unhedged without the short
position on the exchange. To quantify the risk specifically to the crypto carry trade,
we use a calibration to show that a large 30%-40% annual probability of exchange
bankruptcy would offset large Sharpe ratios we have observed. The FTX bankruptcy
was a systemic event, and one of several large-scale institution failures that occur in
this period. We use the return to the carry trade to explore this period. We see that
the return is generally lower around these large events suggesting lower net-demand
for long perpetual futures. We also see a few short-lived periods of very low returns
to the crypto carry trade. The intensity and duration suggest they are related to the
behavior of a few large accounts.
The paper describes the cash-flows and details for the carry trade in Section 2. The
empirical results focussed on Bitcoin, the largest cryptocurrency, presented in Section
3. Section 4 develops a model of the market-clearing funding rate driving the crypto
a pioneer in of cryptocurrency derivative exchanges. Arthur Hayes, BitMEX co-founder, “You can
trade Bitcoin with 100x leverage on the most volatile asset in the history of the world, it’s a lot of
fun.”
5


===== PAGE 7 =====
carry trade returns to understand the role contract designs and exchange policies.
Section 5 describes the empirical properties for seventeen additional cryptocurrencies.
Section 6 considers the role bankruptcy and systemic risk using the crypto carry trader
return. Section 7 concludes.
2
Perpetual Futures and The Carry Trade
We start by describing the cash flows for a trading strategy using the perpetual
futures contract. Here, we abstract from margin, leverage, transaction costs, and
other details particular to the exchange. These are important details, of course, and
we revisit them below. To fix ideas, we focus on a trade that is initiated at t and
closed out at t + 1. Our period is 8 hours or three per day. This coincides with the
periodicity of funding on the Binance exchange. At date t, the long and short side
enter the contract with terms – the futures price – denoted Ft. Similar to regular
futures market, there is no initial payment between the buyer and seller. At date-t+1,
these positions are marked-to-market at the new futures price Ft+1. In addition, there
is a transfer of rt,cFt from the long to the short side of the contract. The funding rate
rt,c can be positive or negative, so the direction of the payment is just a convention.
(Empirically, it is typically positive.) The rate is calculated by the exchange with
a formula that is public. It changes each period based on the spread between the
futures price Ft and the spot index price Pt. The timing on Binance happens to be
that the rate is set at date t but is paid at t + 1. Combining the mark-to-market and
this funding payment, cash-flows (additions or subtractions from a margin account)
are Ft+1 −Ft −rt,cFt for the long side and Ft −Ft+1 + rt,cFt for the short side.
In any paper involving multiple currencies, crypto or otherwise, it is helpful to be clear
about currency unit for measuring cash flows and returns. Here, we convert all cash-
flows to Unites States dollars (USD). We intentionally choose a non-cryptocurrency
so that we can isolate the return characteristics of portfolio strategies separate from,
say, a long position in a cryptocurrency. To convert cryptocurrency balances, we use
a spot index price Pt (again, abstracting from transaction costs).
6


===== PAGE 8 =====
2.1
Tether Denominated and Settled
Binance has two types of perpetual futures contract. One is denominated and settled
in the underlying cryptocurrency (e.g., Bitcoin). But first, we will describe the one
that is settled in Tether. Tether is a cryptocurrency “stable-coin” that is pegged to
the US Dollar. The exchange Bitfinex owns and controls Tether and backs it with fiat
currency, U.S. Treasury bonds and low-risk reserves like commercial-paper.6 Empiri-
cally, Tether has traded very close to par with the US Dollar. Whether or not there
is a material risk of devaluation is an interesting question (see for example, Griffin
and Shams (2020) and Routledge and Zetlin-Jones (2021)). Initially, to describe cash
flows, we treat Tether as fully backed and fungible with US dollars. The Tether de-
nominated contract has higher trading volumes in our sample; as shown in Figure 2.
For Bitcoin, for example, the Tether denominated contract is 84% of the perpetual
volume with the coin-denominated contract, explained below, accounting for 16% of
the volume.
The basic components of the crypto-carry trade strategy are to own the “physical”
coin (i.e., on the spot market) and hedge using a perpetual futures on the derivatives
exchange.
Table 1 outlines the Tether (think USD) cash-flows for one eight-hour
trading period. The first line in Table 1 shows the cash flows from a long position in
BTC; bought at Pt (e.g., the USD price of one Bitcoin) and sold at Pt+1. The second
line in Table 1 shows the cash flows from the short perpetual futures contract on the
exchange. Since, for the moment, we abstract from collateral the initial cash flow on
the perpetual future is zero. The contract’s value at date t + 1 includes the change
in futures price and the funding rt,c. Recall, that by convention the funding rt,c > 0
is a payment from the long-side to the short-side of the contract.7. We can use these
cash-flows to define an excess return, ϕt+1,tether, (excess of the USD risk-free rate,
6Binance has its own backed stable coin called BUSD launched in September 2019. However,
many Binance products still use Tether.
7The calculation of the funding we use here coincides with the contract details at Binance. Other
exchanges have slightly different conventions about when the funding rate is determined rt,c vs rt+1,c
and the measurement of the position size Ft or Ft+1. For the moment, we focus on unconditional
moments of this strategy where this specific timing assumption has little empirical impact.
7


===== PAGE 9 =====
rt,$).8
ϕt+1,tether
=
Pt+1 + (Ft −Ft+1) + rt,cFt
Pt
−(1 + rt,$)
=
rt,c
Ft
Pt
−rt,$ +
Ft −Pt
Pt

−
Ft+1 −Pt+1
Pt+1
 Pt+1
Pt
(1)
The return is composed of two parts. The first is the spread in rates between the
funding rate paid to the short-side perpetual future contract above the risk-free rate
(and literally this difference when Ft = Pt).
This portion of the t + 1 return is
determined at t. The second component is the change in basis between the perpetual
futures price and the spot (index) price that happens from t to t + 1.
As constructed, and with the usual assumptions on the stochastic processes for Pt
and Ft, the excess return ϕt+1,tether is stationary, so the risk premium E[ϕt+1,tether]
and conditional risk premium Et[ϕt+1,tether] (and higher moments) are well defined.
2.2
Coin Denominated and Settled Futures
Binance and other exchanges also offer perpetual futures contracts that are settled in
the underlying cryptocurrency coin. It is helpful to think of these as a risky gamble
on the US Dollar price of a cryptocurrency that pays off in that cryptocurrency. For
concreteness, we describe the case of an inverse perpetual futures contract for Bitcoin
which is a gamble on the USD price of Bitcoin that is also settled in Bitcoin. Coin-
settled futures are sometimes called “inverse futures” since the contract is based on
the Bitcoin price of US dollars, or 1/Pt. The notional size of the contract size is
specified as X US dollars (i.e., $1.00 worth of the contract) at the perpetual price Ft
(denominated as USD per BTC). The payoff at date t + 1 depends on the change in
the perpetual price and is defined as (X/Ft −X/Ft+1) Bitcoins if you are long and
(X/Ft+1 −X/Ft) Bitcoins if you are short. The funding payment is also in Bitcoin,
so the funding for this example would be rt,cX/Ft (think of the quantity X/Ft as the
Bitcoin denominated size of the contract). As above, the convention is that rt,c > 0
indicates payment from the long side to the short side of the trade. (Recall, we use
8Notice that Pt > 0. For this to be a well-defined definition of a return, Pt+1+(Ft−Ft+1)+rt,cFt >
0. Empirically, Ft+1 is close to Pt+1 so the quantity is positive. We can define an equivalent definition
of a risk-premium using just the cash flows sidestepping the need to define a return.
8


===== PAGE 10 =====
rt,c to indicate the generic funding rate for any perpetual future but we expect and
find this rate to differ across contracts.)
The crypto-carry trade in this market again involves a long position in the cryptocur-
rency and a short position on the exchange. The cash flows are listed in Table 2.
Notice that the table converts the cash flows in cryptocurrency back to USD. Similar
to Tether Denominated contracts, we define returns net of the risk-free rate (excess
return), ϕt+1,coin as:
ϕt+1,coin
=
Pt+1
Pt
+

X
 1
Ft+1
−1
Ft

+ rt,c
X
Ft
 Pt+1
Pt
−(1 + rt,$)
This return and Table 2 are for a long position in one unit of the cryptocurrency and
a short position of X contracts. One could choose a position size X to, say, minimize
variance. Here, we choose the “hedge-ratio” and set X = Ft/(1 −rt,c). This hedge
will be perfect in the absence of basis risk. With this chosen position size, X, the
excess return satisfies:
ϕt+1,coin
=
1
1 −rt,c
F
Ft+1
Pt+1
Pt
−(1 + rt,$)
=
(1 −rt,c)−1
 F
Ft+1
Pt+1
Pt
−1 + rt,c −rt,$ + rt,crt,$

=
rt,c −rt,$ + rt,crt,$
1 −rt,c
+
Ft −Pt
Pt
−Ft+1 −Pt+1
Pt+1

Pt+1
Ft+1(1 −rt,c)
(2)
The return here has similar components as for the Tether contract in (1). The first
term is the date-t funding return net of the risk free rate (roughly rt,c −rt,$). The sec-
ond term reflects the risk that comes from the change in basis between the perpetual
futures price and the spot-index price across the dates t and t + 1.
3
The Carry Trade - Empirical Facts for Bitcoin
We start with Bitcoin since it is both the largest cryptocurrency and most heavily
traded cryptocurrency. Table 3 shows the returns to the crypto-carry trade for Bitcoin
over our sample.
Strategy returns are calculated as defined in equations (1) and
(2).
The exchange operates continuously, so we annualize using 3 × 365 = 1095
9


===== PAGE 11 =====
eight-hour funding periods per year.
To calculate excess returns we use the one-
month U.S. Treasury.9
We compute the continuously compounded excess returns
as log(1 + ϕt + rt$) −log(1 + rt,$). For exposition, note that if rt$ ≈0, then the
continuously compounded excess return is approximately log(1 + ϕt) ≈ϕt.
For comparison, Table 3 reports the continuously compounded excess returns from
a strategy that holds a long position in BTC on the exchange. These returns are
calculated from the spot index for each contract.10
Finally, the table shows the
performance of US equities over this time period.
What stands out in Table 3 is the large Sharpe ratio of the crypto-carry trade. Bitcoin
(BTC) the Sharpe ratio is 8.76 per year for the Tether denominated contract and
4.93 per year for the coin denominated contract. Over this same period, 2020-08-11 –
2023-06-23, the buy-and-hold Sharpe ratio is 0.46 per year for a long Bitcoin position
and 0.33 for US equities. The high Sharpe ratios are from high average returns and
particularly low volatility is particularly – much lower than a BTC long position or US
equities. This is apparent in Figure 4 that shows the accumulated (log) wealth from
one-dollar investment (i.e., the cumulative returns). For comparison, the accumulated
wealth from a long position in BTC over this period is on the right axis. A simple
long (buy-and-hold) position does grow more (note the two different scales on the
plot), but is also much more volatile.
Our sample period covers a of couple bull-bear runs in the price of Bitcoin.
In-
terestingly, the crypto-carry trade return characteristics are similar across different
sample periods. Table 4 shows the return characteristics for narrow windows of two
to four weeks where the underlying price of bitcoin was particularly volatile. Notice
the crypto carry trade Sharpe Ratio is large across up and down markets. We see
a similar pattern if we look over longer periods. Table 5 shows results across five
periods. The crypto carry return in the two periods where BTC prices were falling
is similar to the return in periods where BTC was rising. You can see these different
time periods marked in Figure 3.
9The daily observations of the one-month treasury yield, DGS1MO series from Federal Reserve
Bank of St. Louisare converted to an equivalent rate per eight-hour period. We assume the rate is
constant across the day and across weekends.
10The two indices are close to identical and also similar to other indices, like that of Coinbase on
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. The slight variation is from the exchange weightings of recent
trades and order-book information.
10


===== PAGE 12 =====
There are two items to to note in Table 5. First, notice that the crypto carry trade
return in the Tether contract is particularly large in the 2020-08-11 – 2021-04-14
(Epoch 1). This was an era where Binance allowed exceptionally high leverage ratios.
We discuss the role exchange leverage and the crypto carry trade return in more
detail in Section 4. Second, during the period 2022-05-09 – 2023-06-23 (Epoch 5),
the crypto carry trade return is at its lowest. This period includes the collapse of
Terra/Luna, Three Arrows Capital, the bankruptcy of FTX, and the bank failure of
Silicon Valley Bank. We will discuss these events in Section 6.
3.1
Return Decomposition
Recall from equations (1) and (2) that the excess return is comprised of the funding
rate and the realized change in basis (between the spot index price and the perpetual
futures price). Table 6 shows the distribution of funding rates and realized basis.
Notice the median funding rate is 0.01% per funding period (equivalent to about
11% per year ). This is the arbitrary rate set by the exchange when basis is zero
(Ft = Pt).11 The median basis, however, is close to zero. This suggests that it is the
funding rate that is driving the profitability of the trade. To explore this further, for
the Tether denominated contract, we can decompose the trade return in equation (1)
into two components. Define.
ϕt+1,tether
=
xt + yt+1
with
xt
=
rt,c
Ft
Pt
−rt,$
(3)
yt+1
=
Ft −Pt
Pt

−
Ft+1 −Pt+1
Pt+1
 Pt+1
Pt
(4)
The xt component is the funding (and happens to be measurable with date-t infor-
mation). The yt+1 is the component of the return that comes from the change in the
11See https://www.binance.com/en/support/faq/360033525031.
11


===== PAGE 13 =====
basis between the spot index and perpetual futures price.12
Table 8 shows the contribution of the funding and basis to the crypto-carry trade
return. Indeed, the funding rate drives the high mean return (the x component).
The variation in the return is coming from both the funding and the change in spot-
futures basis (the y component). The correlation between the two components is
close to zero, hence the negative item in line six of the table. This is also reflected
in Figure 5. The return component from the change in basis, yt+1 on the righthand
column of the figure appears i.i.d.. The funding component of the return, xt in the
lefthand column, appears serially correlated. It is notable how often the funding rate
is pinned to the 0.01% per eight-hour period.
The timing convention used on the Binance exchange means the funding component
of the t + 1 return is known at date t. This means we could investigate a conditional
version of the cryto-carry trade where, for example, the position is only placed when
xt > 0. Over this sample, however, xt > 0 is true for much of the sample and the
conditional strategy performance is similar to the unconditional strategy. Similarly,
we can run the familiar regression used in commodity or uncovered interest rate
parity of yt+1 = a + bxt + ϵt+1 (as in Fama (1984) or Hollifield and Uppal (1997)).
The usual interpretation in such a regression is that b̸ = 1 implies a risk premium that
is not constant. That is, Et[ϕt+1,tether] is not constant. However, that conclusion is
evident from Table 8 and Figure 5. The expected return is driven by the variation in
the funding component.13
12We can do a similar decomposition for the coin-denominated strategy in equation (2)
ϕt+1,coin
=
xt + yt+1
xt
=
rt,c −rt,$ + rt,crt,$
1 −rt,c
yt+1
=
Ft −Pt
Pt
−Ft+1 −Pt+1
Pt+1

Pt+1
Ft+1(1 −rt,c)
Again, xt captures the funding and yt+1 the basis risk. The (1−rt,c)−1 from the payment of funding
in the crypto-coin muddles the decomposition slightly.
13See also Clarida, Davis, and Pedersen (2009), Ready, Roussanov, and Ward (2017), and Lustig,
Stathopoulos, and Verdelhan (2019)).
12


===== PAGE 14 =====
4
Contract Design and Exchange Policies
We have documented that the return characteristics to the crypto-carry trade are
attractive. This trade is short a future contract on the exchange (hedged with a long
position in the spot market). Driving this performance is the “funding rate” payment
from the long side of the contract to the short position holders. This suggests that the
large volume we see in this derivative market reflects the demand from the long side.
That is, people are willing to pay a premium for long-side exposure to cryptocurrencies
on an exchange relative to the spot market.
4.1
Market-Clearing Funding Rates
There are two types of perpetual futures contract. The Tether-denominated contract
is settled in Tether (USD) and the coin-denominated contract is settled in the crypto-
currency. The differences in the two contracts are evident in the definition of the
crypto-carry trade returns in Tables 1 and 2. Both contracts are designed to track
the same underlying cryptocurrency spot price.
A simple long position in either
contract has virtually identical results (Table 3). Yet, judging by funding rate paid
from long positions to short positions – driving the carry trade return – long traders
on the Tether-based contract appear willing to pay more than long traders on the
coin-based contract.
To understand this empirical property, we develop a simple one-period model of
derivatives trade in the spirit of Harrison and Kreps (1978). For concreteness, think
of the single cryptocurrency as Bitcoin with spot prices of BTC as P0 and P1. With
the date one price, P1 as a random variable. Here, we abstract from basis risk, and
pin the perpetual futures contract price to the spot price, Ft = Pt. These assump-
tions pin down the cash-flows from the perpetual contracts, and we will solve for the
market-clearing funding rate r.
Investors have initial wealth W0.
To motivate trade in a derivative, measure wa
have mean belief µa about the underlying cryptocurrency price return and measure
wb = 1 −wa use mean belief µb. Setting µb < 0 < µa we can think of a as the long-
biased traders with b as short-biased. Investors, i ∈{a, b}, can purchase n perpetual
13


===== PAGE 15 =====
futures contracts to solve:
max
n≥0
Ei[u(W1)]
s.t
W0 −nαF0 ≥0.
The utility function has the usual u′ > 0 and u′′ < 0 properties. It is also helpful to
assume u′′′ ≤0 so futures demands are monotonic in the funding rate.14 The definition
of W1 depends on the contract type, Tether or coin denominated, and on whether
the trade is long or short. The budget constraint comes from the exchange’s margin
requirement. The position size, n ≥0, is the number of contracts the trader chooses.
We will define the payoffs for long, nl ≥0, and short, ns ≥0 separately below. As a
convention, think of these as “Bitcoin-sized” with each position having the notional
value of F0. So the minimum margin requirement imposed by the exchange, α (say
30% for example), imposes an upper-bound on position size. Whether or not this
constraint binds at the optimum will depend on parameters. Wealth not used for
derivative trading is invested in a risk-free asset with a risk-free return of zero.
4.1.1
Demand: Tether-based contract
The date-1 wealth from a position of nl long Tether-based contracts is
W1
=
W0 −αnlF0 + nl([F1 −F0 −rF0 + αF0]+)
(5)
Initial wealth less margin, W0 −αnlF0 is invested outside the derivative market (at
risk-free rate of zero). The payoff on the exchange, the term in brackets, is comprised
of the trading gain or loss, the funding, and the initial margin balance. The exchange
is non-recourse, so the cash-flows from the exchange are bounded, hence operator
[x]+ = max(x, 0).15 To simplify, we focus on the situation where the margin balance
is larger and the exchange cash flows are strictly positive almost surely. In this case,
date one wealth is
W1
=
F0
W0
F0
+ nl
F1
F0
−1 −r

(6)
14Risk aversion that does not decrease with wealth, u′′′ ≤0, is sufficient to ensure that asset
demand increases with the mean return. See Hollifield and Kraus (2009).
15Positions on the exchange are “non-recourse” in that you are not required to post additional
margin. Our single-period discrete-time model abstracts from the exchange policy of near-continuous
mark-to-market. That is in practice, the price path influences payoffs (analogous to a “knock-out”
option”).
14


===== PAGE 16 =====
An analogous exercise shows the wealth to a short position of size ns Tether contracts
is
W1
=
F0
W0
F0
+ ns

1 −F1
F0
+ r

Recall the convention is that funding is paid from the long side to the short side at
rate r where the rate could be positive or negative (empirically we observe it is most
frequently positive).
4.1.2
Demand: Coin-based contract
The date-1 wealth from a position of nl long coin-based contracts is
W1
=
W0 −αnlF0 +

(nlF0)
 1
F0
−1
F1

−nlr + αnl

+

F1
(7)
As above, W0 −αnlF0 is wealth invested outside the derivative market (at rate
zero). The cash-flows from the exchange are more complicated since they are denom-
inated/paid in BTC. These BTC cash-flows are trading gain, funding, and margin
balance. They are converted to dollars at the price F1 (which is equivalent to P1 un-
der our setting). Again, consider the case where the exchange cash flows from profit
and margin are strictly positive. Then,
W1
=
F0
W0
F0
+ nl
F1
F0
−1 −r

+ nl(α −r)
F1
F0
−1

(8)
Comparing (6) to (8), shows the difference between the Tether and Coin denominated
contracts. The coin-based contract has additional exposure to the date-one BTC price
because the margin and funding are in BTC. Similarly, for a short position, wealth is
W1
=
F0
W0
F0
+ ns

1 −F1
F0
+ r

+ ns(α + r)
F1
F0
−1

Here, the margin and the funding paid in BTC offsets some of the exposure from the
short position.
15


===== PAGE 17 =====
4.1.3
Tether based versus coin-based contract
To compare the contract types, define (overall) leverage as the (absolute value of
the) percentage change in date-one wealth relative to a percentage change in the
cryptocurrency price.
Since we are comparing across contracts, think of nT,l and
nC,l as long positions in Tether-based and coin-based contracts. Similarly, for short
positions nT,s and nC,s in Tether-based and coin-based. All of these calculations are
under the simplifying assumption that margin balance less trading losses remains
positive.
L
=

∂W1/W0
∂F1/F0
 = F0
W0















Tether-based
Coin-based
long
nT,l
nC,l(1 + α −r)
short
nT,s
nC,s(1 −α −r).
(9)
For the long position in the Tether contract, the leverage is the notional amount of
the position F0nT,l relative to wealth W0. However, for the coin-based contract this is
amplified by the margin position and funding that are paid in BTC. Quantitatively,
the minimum margin requirement (say α = 0.3) is an order of magnitude larger than
the funding rate (r = 0.001 per 8-hour period). On the short-side, the exposure
created by a short position is mitigated by the margin position and funding-received
that are both in BTC.
A trader’s choice of a desired level of cryptocurrency exposure, L, will depend on
preferences, u, and beliefs, µi. The importance of equation (9) is in translating this
L, to the number of contracts. For a given L, a long trader will choose nT,l > nC,l
while a short trader will choose nT,s < nC,s.16 This will imply the market-clearing
funding rate for Tether-based contracts is higher than for Coin-based contracts. This
is consistent with what we have seen in the data for BTC in Table 3. As we will
explore below, this also holds for other cryptocurrencies.
16This holds when position sizes are strictly positive.
The conditions that imply nT,l = 0 or
nC,l = 0 (e.g., a high value of r) are slightly different across the contract types.
16


===== PAGE 18 =====
4.1.4
Market-Clearing and Leverage
An important and unusual feature of cryptocurrency derivative markets is very high
leverage. We can see the connection between leverage, the crypto-carry trade perfor-
mance, and its implied statement about long-side demand from a change in Binance’s
leverage policy. In the early portion of our sample Binance’s maximum leverage was
125x (an α = 0.008). On 2021-07-23, Binance made several changes related to lever-
age. In particular, maximum leverage was reduced to 50x. There were also stricter
leverage maximums for newly created accounts and new educational material targeted
towards smaller traders.17 We can use our model to understand the potential impact
of a change in leverage. As we will see, the change in leverage policy only has an
impact if the exchange’s leverage constraint is binding.
In this setting, the beliefs about mean future spot prices are µb < 0 < µa. So b
traders are short and a traders are long. Since we have assumed the contract price is
pinned to the spot price, Ft = Pt, the funding rate r adjusts so the aggregate demand
of longs and shorts is equal: wanl + wbns = 0 (the futures market is zero-net supply).
For illustration, we treat the Tether and coin-based contracts separately and then
compare their equilibrium outcomes. Some numerical illustrations are in Figure 9.
For context, think of BTC with log F1
F0 ∼N(µ, σ) setting and σ = 0.0203 – an 8-hour
volatility (equivalent to a 0.6729 per year). This is calibrated to observed volatility
in our sample. The traders beliefs are aggressive, with µa = 0.02 and µb = −0.01,
but they are risk averse with a relative risk aversion of 7.5.18
In Figure 9(a) the proportion of wealth of the long, a, and short, b, traders is about
equal with wa = 0.49 and wb = 0.51. The exchange’s minimum margin is α = 0.15.
At very low funding rates, the long demand is constrained by the exchange’s minimum
margin requirement. At very high funding rates, the short-side demand is constrained.
17The announcement was concurrent to a New York Times article that was critical of high-
leverage exchanges (“Crypto Nomads:
Surfing the World for Risk and Profit” by Eric Lipton
and Ephrat Livni, New York Times, 2021-07-23, https://www.nytimes.com/2021/07/23/us/
politics/crypto-billionaires.html). Note, the the New York Times article references Soska,
Dong, Khodaverdian, Zetlin-Jones, Routledge, and Christin (2021).
18Preferences are u(W1) = 1/γ(c + W1)γ with γ = −6.5 and c = 0.1. The c term is helpful for
computations when W1 happens to be close to zero. However, in this calibration, over the 100, 000
draws W1 > 0 for both traders. Other calibrations can yield W1 = 0 with positive probability.
However, they produce similar figures.
17


===== PAGE 19 =====
However, with these parameters, the market-clearing funding rates for both the Tether
and coin denominated contracts occurs where both sides are unconstrained by the
margin requirement. Notice that the Tether funding rate is higher than the coin rate
is consistent with equation (9).
Figure Figures 9(b) has the same parameterization as in (a) except the minimum
margin rate is increased to α = 0.16. This lowers the maximum leverage. Notice
that this reduces the maximum position for the long and short side for both Tether
and coin contracts. However, the constraint imposed by this new minimum margin
requirement is still not binding at the market-clearing funding rate. So the market-
clearing rate for the Tether contract is unchanged. For the Tether contract, as we
saw in equation (6), the α plays no role in the determining payoffs.19 For the coin-
denominated contract, since the margin is stored in the native cryptocurrency, the
change in the minimum margin impacts the demands of the long and short side (see
equation (9)). However, the change to the market-clearing funding rate is small.
Figure 9(c) and (d) present a numerical example where a change in leverage policy
has a larger impact. The parameters here are all the same except the wealth of the
two groups are more disperse with wa = 0.42 and wb = 0.58. In this case, starting
with Figure 9(c), the margin minimum, α = 0.15, is a binding constraint for the
long side for both Tether and coin contracts. Notice the market-clearing funding
rate coincides with the long-side constraint. The lower rate for the coin contract is,
again, driven by the short traders “extra” demand for contracts to offset the exposure
from the margin position held in the cryptocurrency (equation (9)). Since the margin
minimum is binding, not surprisingly, increasing the margin minimum to α = 0.16
in Figure 9(d) impacts the funding rate in both contracts. Here, the market-clearing
rates fall for both contracts Tether and coin denominated contracts. And, in this
case, trading volume also falls.
In the Bitcoin data, the higher leverage era has much higher funding rates. Table
11 shows the crypto carry trade Sharpe ratios for a window around the change in
leverage. This is also seen in the Table 3 where “Epoch 1” coincides with higher
19The leverage in your position matters – the size of the future’s position relative to your wealth.
But given our simplified setting where the exchange cash flows are strictly positive almost surely,
whether or not your wealth is on margin at the exchange or in an outside bank account is unimportant
for the Tether contract.
18


===== PAGE 20 =====
leverage at Binance. That the Binance leverage change impacted funding rates for
both coin and Tether contracts is consistent with a binding minimum margin rate.
That the funding rate fell is consistent with constraint being binding on the long
side.20 We also explore this result across other cryptocurrencies below.
5
The Carry Trade - Empirical Facts
We have focussed on Bitcoin since it is both the largest and most heavily traded.
Our data includes Bitcoin and seventeen other large cryptocurrency coins that had
both a Tether and Coin denominated perpetual futures contract at the beginning of
our sample on 2020-08-11. For each of these contracts, we calculate the crypto carry
trade returns in the same manor as with BTC. The return is defined in equation (1)
for “Tether Contract” and in equation (2) for the “Coin Contract.” The returns from
the crypto carry trade for the Tether and coin denominated contracts are in Table 9
and in Figure 6. The results mirror what we saw in Bitcoin. First, the crypto carry
trade has high realized returns and low realized variance. The Sharpe ratios are, for
most coins, relatively high. Second, as with BTC, the crypto carry trade performance
is unrelated to the realized performance of the buy-and-hold strategy for that coin
(Figure 6). Third, the performance using the Tether-denominated contact is typically
larger than the coin-denominated contract. Finally, as with the BTC trade, the higher
leverage era has much higher funding rates. Figure 8 plots the carry trade mean and
standard deviation across the higher and lower leverage period (a window around the
July 2021 policy announcement of Binance). It is interesting to note that the leverage
policy also reduced the volatility of the carry trade return. This primarily reflects a
lower variation in the funding rate after July 2021. Overall, Sharpe ratios decreased
across the coins following the leverage change.
Our simple model of the market-clearing funding rate that drives the crypto carry
trade returns is a “sentiment” (the wealth weights and heterogenous beliefs). Perhaps
not surprising, that sentiment is positively correlated across different cryptocurren-
cies. The correlation across crypto carry trade returns across the different coins is
20In cases where the short side is constrained by the margin requirement, increasing the minimum
margin requirement increases the funding rates on both Tether and coin contracts.
19


===== PAGE 21 =====
generally positive. For Tether contracts, the cross-carry-trade correlations range from
0.06 to 0.56. The range is similar for the Coin denominated contracts from −0.01 to
0.45. For both contract types, the Bitcoin-Ether (BTC-ETH) pair has the highest
correlation. All the correlation pairs are plotted in Figure 7. Within each coin and
across contract types, the return correlations, shown in Table 12 are also positive.
The one cryptocurrency that stands out is Binance Coin (BNB). BNB was created
at the Initial Coin Offering (ICO) of the Binance exchange in July of 2017. It was
created as a “utility token” where the coin can be used to pay trading fees on the ex-
change. Initially, like most ICOs of that time, the BNB coin existed on the Ethereum
blockchain (an “ERC-20” token). In April 2019, Binance created a new blockchain,
“Binance Chain” that also records BNB coin ledger transactions. The Sharpe ratio
for the crypto carry trade on BNB is at the lowest of those shown on Table 9. Table
10 documents the reason is the unusually low, funding rate (the x component of the
carry-trade return in equation (3)). BNB is the only currency in our sample with
mean funding rates that are negative. Recall, that by convention, the negative fund-
ing rate means that holders short contract positions pay to holders of long positions
in BNB. Many of the coins listed in Table 9 share a similar evolution to BNB. For
some, the underlying blockchain is Ethereum and others it is a coin native to an-
other blockchain. Many also are issued as “utility tokens” with some ability to cover
transaction costs. That the BNB coin, issued by the exchange, happens to trade with
distinct properties is interesting.
6
Liquidation, Bankruptcy, and Systemic Risk
Cryptocurrencies and cryptocurrency exchanges are unsettled along many dimensions.
In this section we look at three dimensions of this risk. First, cryptocurrency prices are
volatile and we quantify the importance of “liquidation.” Second, crypto exchanges
are risky. FTX bankruptcy in November, 2022 was very large but one of many failed
exchanges. We explore the implications of exchange bankruptcy for the carry trade.
Finally, FTX was only one of several systemic risk events that occurred in this period.
We use the crypto carry trade returns through this May 2022 to March 2023 period
to explore how perpetual futures markets reflected this market instability.
20


===== PAGE 22 =====
6.1
Liquidation Risk
The high volatility of cryptocurrency prices and highly levered positions result in
many positions having trading losses that exceed their posted margin. Indeed, these
liquidations where the exchange closes the position and the trader receives zero are
common (Soska, Dong, Khodaverdian, Zetlin-Jones, Routledge, and Christin (2021)).
As mentioned, the positions on the exchange are “non-recourse” so traders can choose
to post additional margin to avoid liquidation, but are not required to do so. Liquida-
tion, however, is not costless. When a trader enters into a perpetual futures contract
at price Ft, they establish a margin position at the exchange by depositing αFt dollars
(for a moment, focus on the Tether-denominated account). The exchange policy has
a minimum bound on α for initiating a new position. Subsequently, the exchange
has a “maintenance margin” requirement that is used as the trigger for liquidation.
The size of the maintenance margin varies by account size and initial leverage but
is typically less than 1/2 of the initial margin. The automated liquidation sells (or
buys) until your position is back within limits and charges a “liquidation fee.” With
the volatility of cryptocurrency prices, complete liquidations are not uncommon. Ef-
fectively, this is costly since the position is closed prior to the margin balance reaching
zero but with the trader receiving zero.
How does the margin size determine the probability of liquidation? Interestingly, the
probability of liquidation differs across the Tether and coin denominated contracts.
If we look at equation (5) for a Tether long position and the analogously for a short
position, the conditions for the position being liquid (i.e., trading losses are not larger
than the margin) are:
Long Tether:
Ft+1
Ft
≥1 −α −r
(10)
Short Tether:
Ft+1
Ft
≤1 + α + r
(11)
Similarly, for the coin denominated contract from equation (7). Here, solvency re-
quires:
Long Coin:
Ft+1
Ft
≥
1
1 + α −r
(12)
Short Coin:
Ft+1
Ft
≤
1
1 −α −r
(13)
21


===== PAGE 23 =====
The long position in the Tether-based contract is familiar. If you choose to fully
collateralize your position with α = 1 + r there is no leverage and liquidation is
avoided with certainty (assuming prices are positive). With the long position in the
coin contract, things are different. Here, no value for α can avoid liquidation with
certainty (unless prices are bounded from above). For a coin-denominated contract,
a long position in Bitcoin is effectively a short position on dollars. This is similar to
the analysis in Section 4.1.3. A long investor “prefers” the Tether over coin contract.
If an investor was seeking a long position with a fixed margin level α, the Tether-
based future has a lower liquidation probability than a coin-based contract. A short
investor has the opposite preference. There is lower liquidation probability in the
coin denominated contract than in the the Tether denominated contract.
Quantitatively, we explore margin and liquidation probability in Figure 10. We cali-
brate this to 8-hour periods. At the start of each period, margin is set to α. In the
interim, no additional funds are deposited or withdrawn. Liquidation occurs if the
margin balance at the end of the period is negative. Assume log (Ft+1/Ft) ∼N(µ, σ2).
We set µ = 0 and the funding rate, r = 0 to focus on the key volatility parameter.
For volatility, we explore two values for σ. First, we use the the sample standard
deviation of the log change in BTC Tether-denominated perpetual futures price over
our sample.21 This value is σ = 0.0203 per period (0.6729 per year) in Figure 10 (a)
and (b). The second value we take from a seven-day rolling volatility estimate. From
this calculation, the 99th percentile is. This value is σ = 0.0400 per period (1.3237 per
year) and is used in Figure 10 (c) and (d). Finally, the probability of liquidation over
any eight-hour window is very small, so the the liquidation probability is reported as
the probability of one (or more) liquidations per year (or 365 × 3 = 1, 095 eight hour
periods in a year).22
From Figure 10(a) and (b), for small margin balances, say at 8%, the likelihood of a
liquidation over the coming year is large at 10% to 30% depending on contract and
position direction. However, with slightly higher margin levels, say 12%, the risk of
liquidation in an 8-hour window is small. With higher volatility, Figure 10(c) and
21Calibrating using the coin-denominated futures price or the daily spot price from Federal Reserve
Bank of St. Louis gives almost identical results.
22Mechanically, we scale to the annual equivalent assuming independent Bernoulli events. With
probability of liquidation over any 8-hour period denoted p, the probability one or more liquidations
happen over a year, pannual, is calculated as pannual = 1 −(1 −p)1095.
22


===== PAGE 24 =====
(d), the 12% margin implies a high liquidation risk. Here, a margin of closer to 20%
is needed to make liquidation risk minimal. In both examples, note the impact of
contract type. At the same margin, long Tether contract has a lower risk than long
a coin contract. In fact, in this example with the assumption that the drift in the
underlying Bitcoin price is zero, µ = 0, and that we set the funding rate r = 0, the
probability of liquidation across contract types is symmetric.
6.2
Exchange Bankruptcy
Cryptocurrency exchange regulation is underdeveloped and ambiguous. Typically,
customer margin deposits at a cryptocurrency exchanges are not covered by any pro-
gram like the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) or the Securities Investor
Protection Corporation (SIPC). In bankruptcy, depositors are treated as unsecured
creditors – it is not the case that customer margin balances are considered the “cus-
tomer’s property.”23 This is important since Cryptocurrency exchanges businesses
are risky. There is a long list of prominent, high-volume exchanges that have failed:
from MtGox in February of 2014 to FTX in November of 2022.24
The impact of exchange bankruptcy risk for the crypto carry trade depends on how the
trade is executed. Recall, the trade is long a “physical” coin and short an exchange-
traded perpetual futures contract. Storing the long coin on the exchange as margin is
a convenient method of execution. However, that convenience comes with a large loss
if the exchange fails. An execution strategy with less exchange exposure holds the long
coin off of the exchange (in a wallet) and keeps the margin balance at the exchange
small. To quantify the risk, implement the crypto carry trade so that the margin
balance at the beginning of each period to be αFt, where α is the margin ratio. Table
13 shows returns for a Tether-denominated contract and Table 14 shows returns for
coin-denominated contract.25 The returns depend on whether the exchange is solvent
23“Bad News for 500K Crypto Investors: They Don’t Own Their Accounts,” Slashdot, January
07, 2023, or “FTX’s International Customers Lawyer Up, Ask Judge to Rule That Customer Assets
Aren’t Property of FTX Estate,” Coindesk, December 30, 2022.
24Even prior to the MtGox failure in 2014, many exchanges failed. See Moore and Christin (2013).
25Tables 13 and 14 assume the margin position is sufficient to cover the perpetual position. Recall,
that even for a modest level of α, the likelihood the on-exchange margin cannot cover trading losses
of the on-exchange perpetual contract, requiring injecting more funds into the exchange, over the
8-hour window is small – see Figure 10(a)).
23


===== PAGE 25 =====
or bankrupt.
As above, it is helpful to abstract from the basis risk and assume
Ft = Pt at each date and consider log Ft+1/Ft ∼N(µ, σ2). The log-approximation of
the returns (last line in each Table 13 and 14) helps make things clearer. Letting λ
represent the probability that the exchange goes bankrupt over the trading window,
we can write the mean and variance of the crypto carry returns (for either the Tether
or the coin contract) as
E[rt+1]
=
r + λ(µ −r −α)
(14)
V (rt+1)
=
λ(1 −λ) (µ −r −α)2 + λσ2
(15)
The first term in the expected return is the the funding rate.
The second term
captures that, in exchange bankruptcy, the funding is not paid, the margin (α) is
lost, and the off-exchange long position is not hedged (µ is the expected return on
the underlying cryptocurrency). The variance of the return reflects two components.
The first component reflects the risk from the lost funding and margin. The second
term is the risk from the naked long position that occurs when the perpetual futures
contract hedge is lost due to the exchange bankruptcy.
To quantify the impact of exchange bankruptcy risk, we calibrate an example where,
in the absence of exchange bankruptcy risk, the (annual) Sharpe ratio of the crypto
carry trade is approximately the sample average value of 5 for both the Tether and coin
denominated contracts. Starting with both contracts at the same value will isolate
the impact of exchange risk across the contract types. Set funding to r = 0.0103% per
period (or 11.25%per year). The funding rate calibrates the x component in equation
(3). We set the “basis risk,” the y component in equation (4) to 0.000604 per period
(or 0.0200 per year). In the event of bankruptcy, we assume the long position is
exposed for the whole eight-hour period. This is captured as log Ft+1/Ft ∼N(µ, σ2).
We consider a “normal” scenario with µ = 0 and an average volatility of σ = 0.0203
per period (0.6729 per year). Second we consider a distressed market with higher
volatility, σ = 0.0400 per period (1.3237 per year). This is the 99th percentile from
a seven-day rolling volatility calculation. We also assume the market is falling and
set µ = −0.0649. That is −6.5% per period (or −7109% per year) and is the first
percentile of BTC returns observed in our sample. For example, the return for the
eight-hour window 2022-11-09 23:59:00, near to the day FTX declared bankruptcy,
was −0.0730.
24


===== PAGE 26 =====
Figure 11 plots the Sharpe ratio of the crypto carry trade as a function of the
bankruptcy likelihood, λ. To facilitate interpretation, λ is stated as an annual rate.
That is, a 1 −λ chance that the exchange survived all 1, 095 eight-hour periods
in a year. Figure 11(a) is for the Tether-denominated contact and Figure 11(b) is
for the coin-denominated contract.26 The impact of exchange bankruptcy is slightly
smaller for the coin-denominated contract. This is because overall value of the po-
sition smaller. In the coin contract, part of the coin is used for margin. But this
difference across the contract types is minor. The large impact comes from the lost
margin, α, in bankruptcy. The difference in volatility across the two scenarios is mi-
nor. Almost all of the difference between the “normal” and “distressed and falling”
scenarios is coming from the significant drop in the spot price for the now naked
position in the underlying coin.
Empirically, we have documented that the Sharpe ratio for the crypto carry trade is
large. How much does the risk of exchange bankruptcy dampen that conclusion? The
dashed Figure 11(a) and (b) is at 0.3, roughly the Sharpe ratio on US equities. So if
the carry trade is executed with a margin balance of α = 0.1 and assumed the market
was in the “distressed” market calibration, then a bankruptcy probability of 40%
per year would set the carry trade Sharpe ratio to a value in line with US equities.
That seems an overly large frequency of bankruptcy. At smaller levels of margin and
less pessimistic assumptions for the spot market moments, the implied probability of
exchange bankruptcy is much larger.
6.3
Systemic Risk
The previous section looked the likelihood an exchange may fail.
But, of course,
FTX did fail and file for bankruptcy on 2022-11-11.
The collapse of FTX was a
large event in cryptocurrency. It was the second largest exchange by volume at the
time.
However, during this period, there were several large institutional failures.
Terra/Luna, a large stable coin, collapsed on 2022-05-09. The large crypto-focused
hedge fund Three Arrows Capital filed for bankruptcy on 2022-06-22. Finally, the
bankruptcy of Silicon Valley Bank occurred on 2023-03-10. Although Silicon Valley
26Calculations in Figure 11 use the “Log-Returns” line in Tables 13 and 14 and not the log-
approximation.
25


===== PAGE 27 =====
Bank (SVB) was not itself a cryptocurrency institution, its collapse had a large impact
on the stable coin USDC since the company backing that coin had significant deposits
at SVB.
Figure 12 shows spot and derivative volume (across many exchanges) through this
period. Each of the four crisis events coincides with an increase in spot and derivative
trading volume. In Figure 13 we see the BTC price volatility that co-occurs with these
events. The usual asset pricing model would interpret the price changes as changes
in the outlook for cryptocurrencies – beliefs are less optimistic or more pessimistic.
The crypto carry trade return around these events offers a different insight. Recall,
in Section 4, the future’s price is pinned to the spot price. At that (say, now lower)
price, the demands of long and short traders are equated through the funding rate.
That funding rate could be lower or higher. This is analogous to the slope of the
futures curve in traditional dated-futures contracts. When the spot oil price falls,
the dated-futures price could fall by more or less. As we saw in Tables 4 and 5, the
funding rate and the crypto carry trade return are not directly correlated to a falling
spot price. So it is interesting we see in Table 5 (Epoch 5) that through this period
of systemic crises that indeed the crypto carry trade return is lower.
Figures 14(a) and (b) shows the time series of the funding and basis components
of the return (recall equations (3) and (4)). In Section 4 we assumed no basis risk
(Ft = Pt) and solved for market-clearing funding rate. In practice, the funding rate
is set with a mechanical formula that is a rate of 0.01% per eight-hour period plus an
adjustment that depends on the traded perpetual futures price Ft through the basis,
Ft−Pt
Pt . So both the funding and basis will reflect long and short demand in a period.
Figure 14(b) shows the basis through this period. There you can see the increased
variability of the basis around the listed events. The mean basis is around zero and
this is consistent with the whole sample in Table 8. Empirically, Ft ≈Pt, and the
funding rate drives the crypto carry return. The funding rates in this period are, in
general lower. In Figure 14(a) we see that the funding rate (the key component in xt
equation (3)) clusters lower around each of these events. In addition, there were a few
very low funding rates that coincide with the FTX and SVB events. On Figure 14(a)
note that −0.0010 or negative 0.1% per 8 hours is negative 113% per year. These
very low rates were short-lived, but are notable in size.
The smaller funding rates reflect the smaller net-demand for long positions. Presum-
26


===== PAGE 28 =====
ably some of this is from long-side traders reducing leverage or exiting. In particular,
some of the reduction comes from traders being liquidated (margin balance dips to
zero) – liquidations are correlated with price drops (Soska, Dong, Khodaverdian,
Zetlin-Jones, Routledge, and Christin (2021)). It will be interesting to investigate,
perhaps using account-level data, if the few very large negative levels of funding are
associated with a few large accounts or if it was more widespread short positions.
7
Conclusion
In this paper, we study the properties of a cryptocurrency derivative exchange. Specif-
ically, we document that the return on the crypto carry trade is high and the volatility
return is small. This trade that has a short position on the exchange has particu-
larly attractive returns (high Sharpe ratio). The driving component for this return
is the payment – called “funding” on the exchange – from the long-side contract
holder. This implies that a long exchange position is an expensive way to be long
cryptocurrencies. We argue that this represents long-side’s willingness to pay for ac-
cess to leverage. This view seems consistent with the data and the cross-sectional
characteristics of the exchange’s contract offerings.
Regulating cryptocurrencies and the related technologies of blockchain is, of course, a
large challenge with both a quickly changing landscape and ambiguity about agency
domain.27. In addition, and more specifically to exchanges, there is yet little under-
standing of who is trading in these markets and why. In this paper, use the returns
to the crypto carry trade to suggest that, for much of the period we study, there is a
large appetite for leverage to be long cryptocurrency exposure. The strength of that
demand seems particularly relevant as regulators in the United States and elsewhere
consider the role of derivative markets in cryptocurrency.
27For example, “Coinbase, Tarred as an Illicit Exchange by the SEC, Quietly Got Regulated
Elsewhere in the U.S.” Coindesk 2023-08-17 https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/08/17/
coinbase-tarred-as-an-illicit-exchange-by-the-sec-quietly-got-regulated-elsewhere-in-the-us
underscores the difference in regulation from the CFTC and the SEC.
27


===== PAGE 29 =====
References
Augustin, P., A. Rubtsov, and D. Shin (2023): “The impact of derivatives on spot
markets: Evidence from the introduction of bitcoin futures contracts,” Management Sci-
ence, forthcoming.
CFTC (2008): “Staff Report on Commodity Swap Dealers and Index Traders with Com-
mission Recommendations,” Discussion paper, Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
Clarida, R., J. Davis, and N. Pedersen (2009): “Currency carry trade regimes: Be-
yond the Fama regression,” Journal of International Money and Finance, 28(8), 1375–
1389.
Fama, E. F. (1984): “Forward and spot exchange rates,” Journal of monetary economics,
14(3), 319–338.
Griffin, J. M., and A. Shams (2020): “Is Bitcoin really untethered?,” The Journal of
Finance, 75(4), 1913–1964.
Hamilton, J. (2009): “Causes and Consequences of the Oil Shock of 2007-08,” NBER
Working Paper.
Harrison, J. M., and D. M. Kreps (1978): “Speculative investor behavior in a stock
market with heterogeneous expectations,” The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 92(2),
323–336.
Hollifield, B., and A. Kraus (2009): “Defining bad news: changes in return distribu-
tions that decrease risky asset demand,” Management science, 55(7), 1227–1236.
Hollifield, B., and R. Uppal (1997): “An examination of uncovered interest rate parity
in segmented international commodity markets,” The Journal of Finance, 52(5), 2145–
2170.
Lustig, H., A. Stathopoulos, and A. Verdelhan (2019): “The term structure of
currency carry trade risk premia,” American Economic Review, 109(12), 4142–77.
Masters, M. W. (2008): “Testimony before the committee on homeland security and
governmental affairs,” US Senate, Washington, May, 20.
Moore, T., and N. Christin (2013): “Beware the middleman: Empirical analysis of
Bitcoin-exchange risk,” in Financial Cryptography and Data Security: 17th International
Conference, FC 2013, Okinawa, Japan, April 1-5, 2013, Revised Selected Papers 17, pp.
25–33. Springer.
Ready, R., N. Roussanov, and C. Ward (2017): “Commodity trade and the carry
trade: A tale of two countries,” The Journal of Finance, 72(6), 2629–2684.
28


===== PAGE 30 =====
Routledge, B., and A. Zetlin-Jones (2021): “Currency stability using blockchain
technology,” Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control, p. 104155.
Routledge, B. R., D. J. Seppi, and C. S. Spatt (2000): “Equilibrium Forward Curves
for Commodities,” Journal of Finance, 60, 1297–1338.
Shiller, R. J. (1993): “Measuring asset values for cash settlement in derivative markets:
hedonic repeated measures indices and perpetual futures,” The Journal of Finance, 48(3),
911–931.
Soska, K., J.-D. Dong, A. Khodaverdian, A. Zetlin-Jones, B. Routledge, and
N. Christin (2021): “Towards Understanding Cryptocurrency Derivatives: A Case
Study of BitMEX,” in Proceedings of the 30th international conference on World Wide
Web.
Wright, B. D. (2011): “The Economics of Grain Price Volatility,” Applied Economic
Perspectives and Policy, 33, 32–58.
29


===== PAGE 31 =====
Table 1: Tether Denominated and Settled
t = 0
t = 1
Buy one “physical” coin
−Pt
Pt+1
Hedge with perpetual
0
(Ft −Ft+1) + rt,cFt
−Pt
Pt+1 + (Ft −Ft+1) + rt,cFt
The cash-flows from the positions established at date t = 0 are realized at date t = 1 (a period in
our empirical analysis is 8 hours). Cash flows are Tether (equivalent to USD). Note this abstracts
from transaction costs and exchange margin requirements.
Table 2: Coin Denominated and Settled
(USD Cash Flows)
t = 0
t = 1
Buy 1 Bitcoin coin
−Pt
Pt+1
Hedge with X perpetual contracts.
0

X

1
Ft+1 −1
Ft

+ rt,c
X
Ft

Pt+1
−Pt
Pt+1 +

X

1
Ft+1 −1
Ft

+ rt,c
X
Ft

Pt+1
The cash-flows from the positions established at date t = 0 are realized at date t = 1 (a period in
our empirical analysis is 8 hours). Cash flows shown are USD. The coin-based contract settles in
cryptocurrency. We use Pt+1 to convert to USD equivalent. Note these cash flows abstract from
transaction costs and exchange margin requirements.
30


===== PAGE 32 =====
Table 3: Trading Strategy Returns
8 hour funding window - annualized
Strategy
Mean
Std
Sharpe
Carry Trade - Tether
14.26%
1.63%
8.763
Carry Trade - Coin
10.86%
2.20%
4.929
Long Spot (Perpetual Index Price)
32.61%
67.30%
0.485
Long Spot (Coin Index Price)
31.22%
67.57%
0.462
US Equities
6.50%
19.83%
0.328
The Mean and Standard Deviation are for excess returns (the return in excess of the
risk-free rate). The Sharpe Ratio is the Mean divided by the Standard Deviation. All
moments are converted to be annual rates. The Carry Trade is defined in equation
(1) for “Tether Contract” and in equation (2) for the “Coin Contract.” The return to
a long buy-and-hold using Tether and the Coin contracts is shown. These returns are
close to identical and only the buy-and-hold for Tether is shown in following tables.
BTC Data is from Binance Bitcoin (BTC): 2020-08-11 – 2023-06-22 (N=3138). US
Equities is the excess return over the same period is from Ken French/CRSP.The
risk-free rate for calculating excess returns is the one-month U.S. Treasury bond –
DGS1MO from FRED.
31


===== PAGE 33 =====
Table 4: Trading Strategy Returns
8 hour funding window - annualized
Strategy
Mean
Std
Sharpe
n
Up 1: 2021-01-26 – 2021-02-20
Carry Trade - Tether
86.44%
3.18%
27.147
75
Carry Trade - Coin
62.42%
3.47%
17.979
75
Long Spot
799.90%
103.38%
7.737
75
Down 1: 2021-05-07 – 2021-05-22
Carry Trade - Tether
50.80%
3.47%
14.624
45
Carry Trade - Coin
43.74%
4.88%
8.967
45
Long Spot
−1, 010.63%
120.71%
−8.373
45
Up 2: 2021-09-27 – 2021-10-18
Carry Trade - Tether
11.27%
1.34%
8.422
63
Carry Trade - Coin
9.76%
1.50%
6.515
63
Long Spot
616.51%
61.19%
10.076
63
Down 2: 2021-11-08 – 2021-12-05
Carry Trade - Tether
20.07%
1.63%
12.291
81
Carry Trade - Coin
14.06%
1.62%
8.690
81
Long Spot
−340.58%
79.57%
−4.280
81
Down 3: 2022-04-10 – 2022-06-21
Carry Trade - Tether
4.00%
1.01%
3.946
216
Carry Trade - Coin
0.63%
1.14%
0.556
216
Long Spot
−371.30%
77.05%
−4.819
216
The Carry Trade is defined in equation (1) for “Tether Contract” and in equation
(2) for the “Coin Contract.” The return to a long buy-and-hold is for the Tether
contract. Subsamples are from from Binance Bitcoin (BTC): 2020-08-11 – 2023-06-
22 (N=3138).
32


===== PAGE 34 =====
Table 5: Trading Strategy Returns
8 hour funding window - annualized
Strategy
Mean
Std
Sharpe
n
Epoch 1: 2020-08-11 – 2021-04-14
Carry Trade - Tether
38.93%
2.29%
17.005
738
Carry Trade - Coin
29.82%
3.29%
9.059
738
Long Spot
250.70%
74.73%
3.355
738
Epoch 2: 2021-04-14 – 2021-07-19
Carry Trade - Tether
19.54%
2.30%
8.489
288
Carry Trade - Coin
15.02%
2.68%
5.613
288
Long Spot
−263.44%
92.26%
−2.855
288
Epoch 3: 2021-07-19 – 2021-11-07
Carry Trade - Tether
14.64%
1.50%
9.751
333
Carry Trade - Coin
10.61%
2.82%
3.765
333
Long Spot
216.84%
66.14%
3.278
333
Epoch 4: 2021-11-08 – 2022-05-08
Carry Trade - Tether
7.70%
1.20%
6.420
543
Carry Trade - Coin
7.95%
1.22%
6.526
543
Long Spot
−116.75%
64.10%
−1.821
543
Epoch 5: 2022-05-09 – 2023-06-23
Carry Trade - Tether
1.03%
0.78%
1.312
1230
Carry Trade - Coin
0.01%
1.05%
0.007
1230
Long Spot
−15.10%
56.18%
−0.269
1230
The Carry Trade is defined in equation (1) for “Tether Contract” and in equation
(2) for the “Coin Contract.” The return to a long buy-and-hold is for the Tether
contract. Subsamples are from from Binance Bitcoin (BTC): 2020-08-11 – 2023-06-
22 (N=3138).
33


===== PAGE 35 =====
Table 6: Funding Rate - Deciles
per 8 hour funding window
Percentile
Tether
Coin
0.00
−0.119%
−0.300%
0.01
−0.018%
−0.028%
0.02
−0.013%
−0.020%
0.10
−0.002%
−0.006%
0.20
0.002%
0.000%
0.30
0.005%
0.004%
0.40
0.009%
0.008%
0.50
0.010%
0.010%
0.60
0.010%
0.010%
0.70
0.010%
0.010%
0.80
0.010%
0.010%
0.90
0.039%
0.026%
0.98
0.106%
0.093%
0.99
0.128%
0.110%
1.00
0.249%
0.186%
The “funding rate” is per 8-hour period. It is paid from the long-side to the short-side
as a percentage of the notional contract value. (A negative value implies the payment
direct in is from short to long). Payments is made each 8 hour window.Data is from
Binance Bitcoin (BTC): 2020-08-11 – 2023-06-22 (N=3138).
34


===== PAGE 36 =====
Table 7: Futures to Spot Basis - Deciles
percent of spot
Percentile
Tether
Coin
0.00
−0.961%
−0.961%
0.01
−0.109%
−0.109%
0.02
−0.093%
−0.093%
0.10
−0.066%
−0.066%
0.20
−0.056%
−0.056%
0.30
−0.048%
−0.048%
0.40
−0.040%
−0.040%
0.50
−0.032%
−0.032%
0.60
−0.020%
−0.020%
0.70
−0.001%
−0.001%
0.80
0.032%
0.032%
0.90
0.075%
0.075%
0.98
0.136%
0.136%
0.99
0.170%
0.170%
1.00
0.782%
0.782%
The basis is defined as (Ft−Pt)/Pt where Ft is the pertetual futures price and Pt is the
spot index defined in the contract. The Tether-denominated and Coin-denominated
contracts are shown.Data is from Binance Bitcoin (BTC): 2020-08-11 – 2023-06-22
(N=3138).
35


===== PAGE 37 =====
Table 8: Carry Trade - Decomposition - BTC
Simple returns (Annualized Return is Approximated)
R
Tether
Per.Period
Tether
Per.Year
Coin
Per.Period
Coin
Per.Year
Mean
1. mean x
0.0131%
14.3%
0.0094%
10.3%
2. mean y
−0.0000%
−0.0%
0.0005%
0.5%
3. mean x+y
0.0130%
14.3%
0.0099%
10.9%
St. Deviation
4. sd x
0.0267%
0.9%
0.0243%
0.8%
5. sd y
0.0389%
1.3%
0.0595%
2.0%
6. sd(x+y)-sd(x)-sd(y)
−0.0164%
−0.5%
−0.0171%
−0.6%
7. sd(x+y)
0.0492%
1.6%
0.0666%
2.2%
The excess return from the crypto-carry trade return x + y is decomposed into the
funding x (equation (3)) and the change-in-basis y (equation (4)). Returns in this
table are simple returns (not continuously compounded) and the annual returns are
approximated with 365x3 periods per year. Data is from Binance Bitcoin (BTC):
2020-08-11 – 2023-06-22 (N=3138).
36


===== PAGE 38 =====
Table 9: Trading Strategy Returns
8 hour funding window - annualized
Tic
CoinName
Tether
mean
Tether
sd
Tether
Sharpe
Coin
mean
Coin
sd
Coin
Sharpe
BuyHold
mean
BuyHold
sd
BuyHold
Sharpe
n
BTC
Bitcoin
14.3%
1.6%
8.76
10.8%
2.2%
4.92
31.3%
67.3%
0.47
3139
LTC
Litecoin
21.2%
2.5%
8.45
15.8%
3.0%
5.33
19.3%
99.5%
0.19
3054
LINK
Chainlink
22.2%
2.8%
7.90
15.2%
4.3%
3.54
−37.7%
113.8%
−0.33
3114
ETH
Ethereum
17.0%
2.3%
7.33
11.8%
2.7%
4.37
50.5%
86.9%
0.58
3118
EOS
EOS
20.6%
3.0%
6.85
16.4%
4.2%
3.92
−52.1%
108.5%
−0.48
3057
ADA
Cardano
18.1%
2.7%
6.58
13.9%
3.8%
3.68
32.6%
104.5%
0.31
3092
DOGE
Dogecoin
18.7%
3.1%
6.10
20.5%
4.2%
4.90
26.8%
130.4%
0.21
2614
DOT
Polkadot
15.1%
3.0%
5.07
18.2%
4.2%
4.37
0.0%
113.5%
0.00
3096
EGLD
Elrond
21.2%
4.3%
4.90
15.2%
6.2%
2.46
6.6%
119.8%
0.06
2737
THETA
THETA
14.6%
3.0%
4.83
10.3%
5.6%
1.83
−132.3%
120.9%
−1.09
2399
UNI
Uniswap
12.3%
2.6%
4.81
6.7%
4.3%
1.58
−92.9%
113.2%
−0.82
2397
XLM
Stellar
8.9%
2.6%
3.44
14.3%
3.8%
3.80
−90.9%
91.4%
−0.99
2394
XRP
XRP (Ripple)
19.8%
6.3%
3.13
14.5%
6.2%
2.33
25.1%
113.2%
0.22
3051
ETC
Ethereum Classic
10.1%
4.1%
2.45
14.3%
4.3%
3.35
42.1%
115.5%
0.36
3052
BCH
Bitcoin Cash
10.3%
4.9%
2.12
9.5%
21.1%
0.45
−18.2%
96.6%
−0.19
3053
TRX
TRON
4.7%
3.3%
1.42
2.5%
5.3%
0.47
29.5%
91.2%
0.32
3058
FIL
Filecoin
9.7%
9.7%
0.99
13.6%
10.4%
1.30
−69.3%
118.7%
−0.58
2913
BNB
Binance Coin
0.2%
3.5%
0.05
0.4%
4.3%
0.10
82.5%
93.9%
0.88
3106
The Carry Trade is defined in equation (1) for “Tether Contract” and in equation (2) for the “Coin Contract.” The
return to a long buy-and-hold is calculated using the Tether. BTC Data is from Binance Bitcoin (BTC): 2020-08-11
– 2023-06-22 (N=3138). The n is the sample for each coin as some were listed during the sample period.
37


===== PAGE 39 =====
Table 10: Carry Trade - Decomposition - BNB
Simple returns (Annualized Return is Approximated)
R
BTC
Coin
Per.Year
BTC
Tether
Per.Year
BNB
Coin
Per.Year
BNB
Tether
Per.Year
1. mean x
10.3%
14.3%
−2.4%
−0.7%
2. mean y
0.5%
−0.0%
3.0%
0.9%
3. mean x+y
10.9%
14.3%
0.5%
0.2%
4. sd x
0.8%
0.9%
1.8%
1.8%
5. sd y
2.0%
1.3%
3.6%
2.9%
6. sd(x+y)-sd(x)-sd(y)
−0.6%
−0.5%
−1.1%
−1.2%
7. sd(x+y)
2.2%
1.6%
4.3%
3.5%
The excess return from the crypto-carry trade return x + y is decomposed into the
funding x (equation (3)) and the change-in-basis y (equation (4)). Returns in this
table are simple returns (not continuously compounded) and the annual returns are
approximated with 365x3 periods per year. Data is from Binance Bitcoin (BTC):
2020-08-11 – 2023-06-22 (N=3138).
38


===== PAGE 40 =====
Table 11: Trading Strategy Returns
8 hour funding window - annualized
Tic
Strategy
Mean
Std
Sharpe
n
Higher Leverage Era: 2020-07-23 – 2021-07-23
BTC
Carry Trade - Tether
32.97%
2.30%
14.328
1038
BTC
Carry Trade - Coin
25.29%
3.38%
7.476
1038
ETH
Carry Trade - Tether
44.55%
3.40%
13.083
1017
ETH
Carry Trade - Coin
32.13%
4.09%
7.849
1017
Lower Leverage Era: 2021-07-24 – 2022-07-23
BTC
Carry Trade - Tether
8.96%
1.27%
7.049
1092
BTC
Carry Trade - Coin
6.31%
1.35%
4.675
1092
ETH
Carry Trade - Tether
8.33%
1.41%
5.924
1092
ETH
Carry Trade - Coin
6.86%
1.64%
4.176
1092
The data is split around the date 2021-07-23. On this date, Binance reduced the
maximum initial leverage from 125x to 50x (with further leverage reductions for new
accounts). The Carry Trade is defined in equation (1) for “Tether Contract” and in
equation (2) for the “Coin Contract.” Data is from Binance.
39


===== PAGE 41 =====
Table 12: Carry Trade - Correlation
Correlation of Coin and Tether Contract for each Crypto
Tic
correlation
XRP
0.794
FIL
0.767
ETH
0.676
BNB
0.625
BTC
0.573
LTC
0.529
DOT
0.508
DOGE
0.497
TRX
0.480
ADA
0.451
LINK
0.437
ETC
0.425
UNI
0.422
EGLD
0.413
XLM
0.359
EOS
0.333
THETA
0.326
BCH
0.116
Correlations of crypto carry trade returns on a Tether-denominated contract and a coin-denominated
contract. The Carry Trade results are for contracts at 8-hour intervals. Data is from Binance Bitcoin
(BTC): 2020-08-11 – 2023-06-23 (N=3139).
40


===== PAGE 42 =====
Table 13: Tether Denominated and Settled - Exchange Risk
(a) Cash-Flows On and Off Exchange (Tether Contract)
t = 0
t = 1
Off
On
Off
On
On
Solvent
Bankrutpt
Buy one “physical” coin
−Ft
Ft+1
Exchange Margin (in Tether)
−αFt
αFt
0
Perpetual Future
(Ft −Ft+1) + rFt
0
−Ft
−αFt
Ft+1
(Ft −Ft+1) + (r + α)Ft
0
(b) Combined Cash-Flows (Tether Contract)
t = 0
t = 1
Solvent
Bankrupt
Combined Cash Flows
−(1 + α)Ft
Ft(1 + α + r)
Ft+1
(Log) Returns
log (1 + α + r)
log Ft+1
Ft
−log (1 + α)
−log (1 + α)
(Approx Log) Returns
r
log Ft+1
Ft −α
The cash-flows from the positions established at date t = 0 are realized at date t = 1 (a period
in our empirical analysis is 8 hours) under the assumption that there is no basis risk (Pt = Ft and
Pt+1 = Ft+1). The long coin position is held off the exchange. A margin balance with margin rate
α, the trading gains and losses on the perpetual future, and the exchange funding rate, r, are held
inside the exchange. In the event the exchange is bankrupt at date one, these cash flows are zero.
This table abstracts from margin “liquidation” where on-exchange margin is insufficient to cover
losses on the perpetual future. Table (b) combines the on and off exchange.
41


===== PAGE 43 =====
Table 14: Coin Denominated and Settled - Exchange Risk
(a) Cash-Flows On and Off Exchange (Coin-Denominated Contract)
t = 0
t = 1
Off
On
Off
On
On
Solvent
Bankrupt
Buy (1 −α) “physical” coin
−(1 −α)Ft
(1 −α)Ft+1
Exchange Margin
−αFt
αFt+1
0
Ft/(1 + rt,c) Perpetual Future
1
1−rFt −Ft+1
0
−(1 −α)Ft
−αFt
(1 −α)Ft+1
1
1−rFt
0
−(1 −α)Ft+1
(b) Combined Cash-Flows (Coin-Denominated Contract)
t = 0
t = 1
Solvent
Bankrupt
Combined Cash Flows
−(1 + α)Ft
Ft(1 + α + r)
Ft+1
(Log) Returns
log (1 + α + r)
log Ft+1
Ft
−log (1 + α)
−log (1 + α)
(Approx Log) Returns
r
log Ft+1
Ft −α
The cash-flows from the positions established at date t = 0 are realized at date t = 1 (a period
in our empirical analysis is 8 hours) under the assumption that there is no basis risk (Pt = Ft and
Pt+1 = Ft+1). The long coin position is held off the exchange. A margin balance with margin rate α
(held in coin), the trading gains and losses on the perpetual future, and the exchange funding rate,
r, are held inside the exchange. In the event the exchange is bankrupt at date one, these cash flows
are zero. This table abstracts from margin “liquidation” where on-exchange margin is insufficient
to cover losses on the perpetual future. Table (b) combines the on and off exchange.
42


===== PAGE 44 =====
Figure 1: Spot and Derivative Markets Trading Volume
$0
$1
$2
$3
2021/01/01
2022/01/01
2023/01/01
Millions BTC
Derivative Market Volume
Spot Market Volume
The trading volume is aggregated from the data feeds of exchanges: FTX, Binance,
Okex, Huobi, Bitmex, Coinbase, Kraken, Bitstamp, Bybit and Deribit. The derivative
volume is the contract’s notional value. Volume statistics are 7-day centered moving
average measured in BTC. Data is plotted from 2020-08-11, the start of our crypto
carry trade data.
43


===== PAGE 45 =====
Figure 2: Derivative Markets Trading Volume by Contract Type
Perpetual
Tether
Perpetual
Coin
Dated 
Tether
Dated 
Coin
0%
50%
100%
2021/01/01
2022/01/01
2023/01/01
Percent of Total volume
Contracts for Bitcoin (BTC): 2020−08−11 −− 2023−04−24 (N=987)
The plots show the daily proportion of the total Bitcoin (BTC) trading volume on
Binance by contract type. Volume statistics are 7-day centered moving average mea-
sured in BTC. By construction, the sum at each day is 100%. Shown is the perpet-
ual futures contract settled in Tether, and the perpetual futures contract settled in
coin (BTC). The finitely-dated futures contracts are aggregated for open contracts
(approximately three-month horizon) in both Tether denominated and coin (BTC).
Coincidentally, the Perpetual Coin-Settled Bitcoin contract began trading August 10,
2020, one day ahead of our sample start date.
44


===== PAGE 46 =====
Figure 3: Bitcoin (BTC) Price
$20,000
$40,000
$60,000
2021/01/01
2022/01/01
2023/01/01
date
BTC Price
Source: Coinbase/FRED.  Daily:, Bitcoin (CBTC): 2020−08−11 −− 2023−06−23 (N=1047)
Coinbase Index Price of Bitcoin (BTC). Data is from the Federal Reserve Bank of St.
Louis. The shaded regions highlight the subsamples presented in Tables 5.
45


===== PAGE 47 =====
Figure 4: Carry Trade – Cumulative Returns
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
Jan 01 21
Jan 01 22
Jan 01 23
date
log Wealth
log Wealth (Long Spot)
Strategy
Carry Trade − Coin
Carry Trade − Tether
Long Spot (Right Axis)
Bitcoin (BTC): 2020−08−11 −− 2023−06−23 (N=3139)
Cumulative Returns from Tether and Coin Carry Trades (i.e., the log wealth from
a $1.00 initial investment). The right-scale shows the cumulative returns from an
long buy-and-hold investment in Bitcoin. The Carry Trade is defined in Table 1 for
“Tether Contract” and in Table 2 for the “Coin Contract.”
46


===== PAGE 48 =====
Figure 5: Carry Trade – Return Components
−0.002
0.000
0.002
Jan 01 21
Jan 01 22
Jan 01 23
date
x
Tether (BTC)
−0.002
0.000
0.002
Jan 01 21
Jan 01 22
Jan 01 23
date
y
Tether (BTC)
−0.002
0.000
0.002
Jan 01 21
Jan 01 22
Jan 01 23
date
x
Coin(BTC)
−0.002
0.000
0.002
Jan 01 21
Jan 01 22
Jan 01 23
date
y
Coin(BTC)
The excess return from the crypto-carry trade return x + y is decomposed into the
funding x (equation (3)) and the change-in-basis y (equation (4)) . Returns in this
figure are simple returns. Shown here is the Tether-based contract (top row) and
Coin-based contract (bottom row) for BTC. Dates: 2020-08-11 – 2023-06-23.
47


===== PAGE 49 =====
Figure 6: Carry Trade – Sharpe Ratio
ADA
BCH
BNB
BTC
DOGE
DOT
EGLD
EOS
ETC
ETH
FIL
LINK
LTC
THETA
TRX
UNI
XLM
XRP
ADA
BCH
BNB
BTC
DOGE
DOT
EGLD
EOS
ETC
ETH
FIL
LINK
LTC
THETA
TRX
UNI
XLM
XRP
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
−1.0
−0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
Sharpe Ratio: Buy and Hold
Sharpe Ratio: Cryptocarry Trade
contract
a
a
a
a
BTC Coin
BTC Tether
Coin
Tether
Sharpe Ratio for returns from Tether and Coin Carry Trades versus Sharpe Ration of
returns from buy-and-hold the underlying coin. The right-scale shows the cumulative
returns from an long buy-and-hold investment in Bitcoin. The Carry Trade is defined
in equation (1) for “Tether Contract” and in equation (2) for the “Coin Contract.”
48


===== PAGE 50 =====
Figure 7: Carry Trade Return Correlation
(a)
FIL
XRP
BCH
XLM
ETC
THETA
DOGE
UNI
TRX
EGLD
BNB
EOS
ADA
LINK
DOT
LTC
ETH
BTC
ETH
LTC
DOT
LINK
ADA
EOS
BNB EGLD TRX
UNI DOGETHETA ETC
XLM
BCH
XRP
−1.0
−0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
Tether−Denominated Contracts
(b)
FIL
XRP
BCH
XLM
ETC
THETA
DOGE
UNI
TRX
EGLD
BNB
EOS
ADA
LINK
DOT
LTC
ETH
BTC
ETH
LTC
DOT
LINK
ADA
EOS
BNB EGLD TRX
UNI DOGETHETA ETC
XLM
BCH
XRP
−1.0
−0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
Coin−Denominated Contracts
Crypto carry trade return correlations across underlying cryptocurrency. Plot (a)
is for Tether-denominated contracts and plot (b) is for coin-denominated contracts.
Sharpe Ratio for returns from Tether and Coin Carry Trades versus Sharpe Ration
of returns from buy-and-hold the underlying coin. The Carry Trade is defined in
equation (1) for “Tether Contract” and in equation (2) for the “Coin Contract.”
Data range is: 2020-08-11 – 2023-06-23.
49


===== PAGE 51 =====
Figure 8: Carry Trade – Mean and Standard Deviation – Across Leverage Eras
BTC
ETH
BTC
ETH
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
0%
5%
10%
15%
Standard Deviation (annual)
Mean (annual)
Higher Leverage Era
Lower Leverage Era
Carry Trade − Tether
BTC
ETH
BTC
ETH
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
0%
5%
10%
15%
Standard Deviation (annual)
Mean (annual)
Higher Leverage Era
Lower Leverage Era
Carry Trade − Coin
The Higher Leverage Era (125x) is from the start of our sample to 2021-07-23. The
Lower Leverage Era (50x) is from 2021-07-24 to the end our our sample. The sample
standard deviation and mean for the strategy return for each coin are shown. The ray
from the origin for each point is the sample Sharpe ratio. The Carry Trade is defined
in equation (1) for “Tether Contract” and in equation (2) for the “Coin Contract.”
Full sample dates: 2020-08-11 – 2023-06-23.
50


===== PAGE 52 =====
Figure 9: Market-Clearing Funding Rate
(a) α = 0.15
(b) α = 0.16
(c) α = 0.15
(d) α = 0.16
The example is parameterized as follows. log F1
F0 ∼N(µ, σ) setting and σ = 0.0203 –
an 8-hour volatility (equivalent to a 0.6729 per year). There are two types of traders
with µa = 0.02 (long) and µb = −0.01 (short). In Figurers (a) and (b), the exchange
policy minimum margin, α, is not binding, the wealth weights are wa = 0.49 and
wb = 0.51. In Figures (c) and (d), the minimum margin, α, is binding for long traders,
the wealth weights are wa = 0.42 and wb = 0.58. In Figures (a) and (c), the exchange
minimum margin policy is α = 0.15. In Figures (b) and (d), the exchange minimum
margin policy is α = 0.16. Preference of all traders are u(W1) = 1/γ(c + W1)γ with
γ = −6.5 and c = 0.1.
51


===== PAGE 53 =====
Figure 10: Margin and Liquidation Probability
(a) Tether - mean volatility
(b) Coin - mean volatility
(c) Tether - high volatility
(d) Coin - high volatility
Probability of liquidation is calculated from log Ft+1
Ft
∼N(µ, σ2) using equations (10), (11)
for the Tether denominated contracts in panels (a) and (c) and equations (12) and (13) for
the coin denominated contracts in panels (b) and (d). In all cases, the mean spot return
is µ = 0. In panels (a) and (b) the volatility is calibrated to the BTC sample mean of
σ = 0.0203 (equivalent to 0.6729 per year). In panels (c) and (d), σ = 0.0400 (1.3237 per
year), the 99th percentile from a rolling seven-day rolling volatility. Funding is set to r = 0.
The threshold for liquidation is a margin balance of zero. The probability of liquidation
per period, p, are converted to an annual equivalent assuming 1095 = 365 × 3 independent
8-hour Bernoulli events per year. pannual is calculated as pannual = 1 −(1 −p)1095 with
pannual representing the probability of one or more liquidations in the next year.
52


===== PAGE 54 =====
Figure 11: Exchange Bankruptcy Implications
(a) Tether Contract
(b) Coin-Based Contract
The moments of excess returns are calculated from the cash-flows described in Tables
13 and 14. The funding rate (equation (3)) r = 0.0103% per period (or 11.25%per
year). The “basis risk” (equation (4)) is 0.000604 per period (or 0.0200 per year).
log Ft+1/Ft ∼N(µ, σ2). “Normal” scenario has µ = 0 and σ = 0.0203 per period
(0.6729 per year). “Distressed and Falling” has µ = −0.0649 (−71.0865 per year)
and σ = 0.0400 per period (1.3237 per year). The dashed horizontal reference line is
at a value of 0.3, the approximate Sharpe ratio of U.S. equities.
53


===== PAGE 55 =====
Figure 12: Spot and Derivative Markets Trading Volume - Crisis Era
The trading volume is aggregated from the data feeds of exchanges: FTX, Binance,
Okex, Huobi, Bitmex, Coinbase, Kraken, Bitstamp, Bybit and Deribit. The derivative
volume is the contract’s notional value. Volume statistics are 7-day centered moving
average measured in BTC. The reference lines shown are for the dates of failure of
Terra/Luna, Three Arrows Capital, FTX, and Silicon Valley Bank.
54


===== PAGE 56 =====
Figure 13: BTC Price - Crisis Era
The spot index price for Tether denominated BTC contract at 8-hour intervals. (Vir-
tually identical to index for coin denominated contract or Coinbase index).
The
reference lines shown are for the dates of failure of Terra/Luna, Three Arrows Capi-
tal, FTX, and Silicon Valley Bank.
55


===== PAGE 57 =====
Figure 14: Carry Trade – Return Components
(a) xt – Funding
(a) yt – Basis
The excess return from the crypto-carry trade return for BTC x + y is decomposed
into the funding x (equation (3)) and the change-in-basis y (equation (4)). The lighter
dots are for Tether-denominated contracts. The darker dots are the coin-denominated
contract. Observations that are larger are highlighted with a larger sized dot. The
reference lines shown are for the dates of failure of Terra/Luna, Three Arrows Capital,
FTX, and Silicon Valley Bank.
56
